the purpose of this regulation is to improve the functioning of the internal market by laying down a uniform legal framework in particular for the development marketing and use of artificial intelligence in conformity with union values.
this regulation pursues a number of overriding reasons of public interest such as a high level of protection of health safety and fundamental rights and it ensures the free movement of ai-based goods and services cross-border thus preventing member states from imposing restrictions on the development marketing and use of ai systems unless explicitly authorised by this regulation.
artificial intelligence systems ai systems can be easily deployed in multiple sectors of the economy and society including cross border and circulate throughout the union.
certain member states have already explored the adoption of national rules to ensure that artificial intelligence is safe and is developed and used in compliance with fundamental rights obligations.
differing national rules may lead to fragmentation of the internal market and decrease legal certainty for operators that develop import or use ai systems.
a consistent and high level of protection throughout the union should therefore be ensured while divergences hampering the free circulation of ai systems and related products and services within the internal market should be prevented by laying down uniform obligations for operators and guaranteeing the uniform protection of overriding reasons of public interest and of rights of persons throughout the internal market based on article of the treaty on the functioning of the european union tfeu.
to the extent that this regulation contains specific rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data concerning restrictions of the use of ai systems for ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement it is appropriate to base this regulation in as far as those specific rules are concerned on article of the tfeu.
in light of those specific rules and the recourse to article tfeu it is appropriate to consult the european data protection board.
tree..b rbek en artificial intelligence is a fast evolving family of technologies that can contribute to a wide array of economic and societal benefits across the entire spectrum of industries and social activities.
by improving prediction optimising operations and resource allocation and personalising digital solutions available for individuals and organisations the use of artificial intelligence can provide key competitive advantages to companies and support socially and environmentally beneficial outcomes for example in healthcare farming education and training infrastructure management energy transport and logistics public services security justice resource and energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
at the same time depending on the circumstances regarding its specific application and use artificial intelligence may generate risks and cause harm to public interests and rights that are protected by union law.
such harm might be material or immaterial.
a union legal framework laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence is therefore needed to foster the development use and uptake of artificial intelligence in the internal market that at the same time meets a high level of protection of public interests such as health and safety and the protection of fundamental rights as recognised and protected by union law.
to achieve that objective rules regulating the placing on the market and putting into service of certain ai systems should be laid down thus ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market and allowing those systems to benefit from the principle of free movement of goods and services.
by laying down those rules and building on the work of the high-level expert group on artificial intelligence as reflecetd in the guidelines for trustworthy artificial intelligence in the eu this regulation supports the objective of the union of being a global leader in the development of secure trustworthy and ethical artificial intelligence as stated by the european council and it ensures the protection of ethical principles as specifically requested by the european parliament.
european council special meeting of the european council and october – conclusions euco p. .
european parliament resolution of october with recommendations to the commission on a framework of ethical aspects of artificial intelligence robotics and related technologies inl.
tree..b rbek en a the harmonised rules on the placing on the market putting into service and use of ai systems laid down in this regulation should apply across sectors and in line with its new legislative framework approach should be without prejudice to existing union law notably on data protection consumer protection fundamental rights employment and product safety to which this regulation is complementary.
as a consequence all rights and remedies afforded by such union law to consumers and other persons who may be negatively impacted by ai systems including as regards the compensation of possible damages pursuant to council directive eec of july on the approximation of the laws regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning liability for defective products remain unaffected and fully applicable.
on top of that this regulation aims to strengthen the effectiveness of such existing rights and remedies by establishing specific requirements and obligations including in respect of transparency technical documentation and record-keeping of ai systems.
furthermore the obligations placed on various operators involved in the ai value chain under this regulation should apply without prejudice to national laws in compliance with union law having the effect of limiting the use of certain ai systems where such laws fall outside the scope of this regulation or pursue other legitimate public interest objectives than those pursued by this regulation.
for example national labour law and the laws on the protection of minors i.e.
persons below the age of taking into account the united nations general comment no on children’s rights insofar as they are not specific to ai systems and pursue other legimitate public interest objectives should not be affected by this regulation.
tree..b rbek en the notion of ai system should be clearly defined to ensure legal certainty while providing the flexibility to accommodate future technological developments.
the definition should be based on key functional characteristics of artificial intelligence such as its learning reasoning or modelling capabilities distinguishing it from simpler software systems and programming approaches.
in particular for the purposes of this regulation ai systems should have the ability on the basis of machine andor human-based data and inputs to infer the way to achieve a set of final objectives given to them by humans using machine learning andor logic- and knowledge based approaches and to produce outputs such as content for generative ai systems e.g.
text video or images predictions recommendations or decisions influencing the environment with which the system interacts be it in a physical or digital dimension.
a system that uses rules defined solely by natural persons to automatically execute operations should not be considered an ai system.
ai systems can be designed to operate with varying levels of autonomy and be used on a stand-alone basis or as a component of a product irrespective of whether the system is physically integrated into the product embedded or serve the functionality of the product without being integrated therein non-embedded.
the concept of the autonomy of an ai system relates to the degree to which such a system functions without human involvement.
a machine learning approaches focus on the development of systems capable of learning and inferring from data to solve an application problem without being explicitly programmed with a set of step-by-step instructions from input to output.
learning refers to the computational process of optimizing from data the parameters of the model which is a mathematical construct generating an output based on input data.
the range of problems addressed by machine learning typically involves tasks for which other approaches fail either because there is no suitable formalisation of the problem or because the resolution of the problem is intractable with non-learning approaches.
machine learning approaches include for instance supervised unsupervised and reinforcement learning using a variety of methods including deep learning with neural networks statistical techniques for learning and inference including for instance logistic regression bayesian estimation and search and optimisation methods.
tree..b rbek en b logic- and knowledge based approaches focus on the development of systems with logical reasoning capabilities on knowledge to solve an application problem.
such systems typically involve a knowledge base and an inference engine that generates outputs by reasoning on the knowledge base.
the knowledge base which is usually encoded by human experts represents entities and logical relationships relevant for the application problem through formalisms based on rules ontologies or knowledge graphs.
the inference engine acts on the knowledge base and extracts new information through operations such as sorting searching matching or chaining.
logic- and knowledge based approaches include for instance knowledge representation inductive logic programming knowledge bases inference and deductive engines symbolic reasoning expert systems and search and optimisation methods.
c in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation as regards machine learning approaches and logic- and knowledged based approaches and to take account of market and technological developments implementing powers should be conferred on the commission.
d the notion of ‘user’ referred to in this regulation should be interpreted as any natural or legal person including a public authority agency or other body using an ai system under whose authority the system is used.
depending on the type of ai system the use of the system may affect persons other than the user.
tree..b rbek en the notion of biometric data used in this regulation should be interpreted consistently with the notion of biometric data as defined in article of regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council article of regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council and article of directive eu of the european parliament and of the council.
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of april on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive ec general data protection regulation oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of october on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions bodies offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data and repealing regulation ec no and decision no ec oj l .. p. directive eu of the european parliament and of the council of april on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention investigation detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties and on the free movement of such data and repealing council framework decision jha law enforcement directive oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en the notion of remote biometric identification system as used in this regulation should be defined functionally as an ai system intended for the identification of natural persons typically at a distance without their active involvement through the comparison of a person’s biometric data with the biometric data contained in a reference data repository irrespectively of the particular technology processes or types of biometric data used.
such remote biometric identification systems are typically used to perceive scan multiple persons or their behaviour simultaneously in order to facilitate significantly the identification of a number of persons without their active involvement.
such a definition excludes verificationauthentication systems whose sole purpose would be to confirm that a specific natural person is the person he or she claims to be as well as systems that are used to confirm the identity of a natural person for the sole purpose of having access to a service a device or premises.
this exclusion is justified by the fact that such systems are likely to have a minor impact on fundamental rights of natural persons compared to remote biometric identification systems which may be used for the processing of the biometric data of a large number of persons.
in the case of ‘real-time’ systems the capturing of the biometric data the comparison and the identification occur all instantaneously near-instantaneously or in any event without a significant delay.
in this regard there should be no scope for circumventing the rules of this regulation on the ‘real-time’ use of the ai systems in question by providing for minor delays.
‘real-time’ systems involve the use of ‘live’ or ‘near-‘live’ material such as video footage generated by a camera or other device with similar functionality.
in the case of ‘post’ systems in contrast the biometric data have already been captured and the comparison and identification occur only after a significant delay.
this involves material such as pictures or video footage generated by closed circuit television cameras or private devices which has been generated before the use of the system in respect of the natural persons concerned.
tree..b rbek en for the purposes of this regulation the notion of publicly accessible space should be understood as referring to any physical place that is accessible to an undetermined number of natural persons and irrespective of whether the place in question is privately or publicly owned.
and irrepective of the activity for which the place may be used such as commerce for instance shops restaurants cafés services for instance banks professional activities hospitality sport for instance swimming pools gyms stadiums transport for instance bus metro and railway stations airports means of transport entertainment for instance cinemas theatres museums concert and conference halls leisure or otherwise for instance public roads and squares parks forests playgrounds.
a place should be classified as publicly accessible also if regardless of potential capacity or security restrictions access is subject to certain predetermined conditions which can be fulfilled by an undetermined number of persons such as purchase of a ticket or title of transport prior registration or having a certain age.
by contrast a place should not be considered publicly accessible if access is limited to specific and defined natural persons through either union or national law directly related to public safety or security or through the clear manifestation of will by the person having the relevant authority on the place.
the factual possibility of access alone e.g.
an unlocked door an open gate in a fence does not imply that the place is publicly accessible in the presence of indications or circumstances suggesting the contrary e.g.
signs prohibiting or restricting access.
company and factory premises as well as offices and workplaces that are intended to be accessed only by relevant employees and service providers are places that are not publicly accessible.
publicly accessible spaces should not include prisons or border control areas.
some other areas may be composed of both not publicly accessible and publicly accessible areas such as the hallway of a private residential building necessary to access a doctors office or an airport.
online spaces are not covered either as they are not physical spaces.
whether a given space is accessible to the public should however be determined on a case-by-case basis having regard to the specificities of the individual situation at hand.
in order to ensure a level playing field and an effective protection of rights and freedoms of individuals across the union the rules established by this regulation should apply to providers of ai systems in a non-discriminatory manner irrespective of whether they are established within the union or in a third country and to users of ai systems established within the union.
tree..b rbek en in light of their digital nature certain ai systems should fall within the scope of this regulation even when they are neither placed on the market nor put into service nor used in the union.
this is the case for example of an operator established in the union that contracts certain services to an operator established outside the union in relation to an activity to be performed by an ai system that would qualify as high-risk.
in those circumstances the ai system used by the operator outside the union could process data lawfully collected in and transferred from the union and provide to the contracting operator in the union the output of that ai system resulting from that processing without that ai system being placed on the market put into service or used in the union.
to prevent the circumvention of this regulation and to ensure an effective protection of natural persons located in the union this regulation should also apply to providers and users of ai systems that are established in a third country to the extent the output produced by those systems is used in the union.
nonetheless to take into account existing arrangements and special needs for future cooperation with foreign partners with whom information and evidence is exchanged this regulation should not apply to public authorities of a third country and international organisations when acting in the framework of international agreements concluded at national or european level for law enforcement and judicial cooperation with the union or with its member states.
such agreements have been concluded bilaterally between member states and third countries or between the european union europol and other eu agencies and third countries and international organisations.
recipient member states authorities and union institutions offices bodies and bodies making use of such outputs in the union remain accountable to ensure their use comply with union law.
when those international agreements are revised or new ones are concluded in the future the contracting parties should undertake the utmost effort to align those agreements with the requirements of this regulation.
this regulation should also apply to union institutions offices bodies and agencies when acting as a provider or user of an ai system.
tree..b rbek en -a if and insofar ai systems are placed on the market put into service or used with or without modification of such systems for military defence or national security purposes those should be excluded from the scope of this regulation regardless of which type of entity is carrying out those activities such as whether it is a public or private entity.
as regards military and defence purposes such exclusion is justified both by article teu and by the specifities of the member states’ and the common union defence policy covered by chapter of title v of the treaty on european union teu that are subject to public international law which is therefore the more appropriate legal framework for the regulation of ai systems in the context of the use of lethal force and other ai systems in the context of military and defence activities.
as regards national security purposes the exclusion is justified both by the fact that national security remains the sole responsibility of member states in accordance with article teu and by the specific nature and operational needs of national security activities and specific national rules applicable to those activities.
nonetheless if an ai system developed placed on the market put into service or used for military defence or national security purposes is used outside those temporarily or permanently for other purposes for example civilian or humanitarian purposes law enforcement or public security purposes such a system would fall within the scope of this regulation.
in that case the entity using the system for other than military defence or national security purposes should ensure compliance of the system with this regulation unless the system is already compliant with this regulation.
ai systems placed on the market or put into service for an excluded i.e.
military defence or national security and one or more non excluded purposes e.g.
civilian purposes law enforcement etc.
fall within the scope of this regulation and providers of those systems should ensure compliance with this regulation.
in those cases the fact that an ai system may fall within the scope of this regulation should not affect the possibility of entities carrying out national security defence and military activities regardless of the type of entity carrying out those activities to use ai systems for national security military and defence purposes the use of which is excluded from the scope of this regulation.
an ai system placed on the market for civilian or law enforcement purposes which is used with or without modification for military defence or national security purposes should not fall within the scope of this regulation regardless of the type of entity carrying out those activities.
tree..b rbek en a this regulation should be without prejudice to the provisions regarding the liability of intermediary service providers set out in directive ec of the european parliament and of the council as amended by the digital services act.
b this regulation should not undermine research and development activity and should respect freedom of science.
it is therefore necessary to exclude from its scope ai systems specifically developed and put into service for the sole purpose of scientific research and development and to ensure that the regulation does not otherwise affect scientific research and development activity on ai systems.
as regards product oriented research activity by providers the provisions of this regulation should also not apply.
this is without prejudice to the obligation to comply with this regulation when an ai system falling into the scope of this regulation is placed on the market or put into service as a result of such research and development activity and to the application of provisions on regulatory sandboxes and testing in real world conditions.
furthermore without prejudice to the foregoing regarding ai systems specifically developed and put into service for the sole purpose of scientific research and development any other ai system that may be used for the conduct of any reaserch and development activity should remain subject to the provisions of this regulation.
under all circumstances any research and development activity should be carried out in accordance with recognised ethical and professional standards for scientific research.
tree..b rbek en c in the light of the nature and complexity of the value chain for ai systems it is essential to clarify the role of actors who may contribute to the development of ai systems notably high-risk ai systems.
in particular it is necessary to clarify that general purpose ai systems are ai systems that are intended by the provider to perform generally applicable functions such as imagespeech recognition and in a plurality of contexts.
they may be used as high-risk ai systems by themselves or be components of other high risk ai systems.
therefore due to their particular nature and in order to ensure a fair sharing of responsibilities along the ai value chain such systems should be subject to proportionate and more specific requirements and obligations under this regulation while ensuring a high level of protection of fundamental rights health and safety.
in addition the providers of general purpose ai systems irrespective of whether they may be used as high-risk ai systems as such by other providers or as components of high-risk ai systems should cooperate as appropriate with the providers of the respective high-risk ai systems to enable their compliance with the relevant obligations under this regulation and with the competent authorities established under this regulation.
in order to take into account the specific characteristics of general purpose ai systems and the fast evolving market and technological developments in the field implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to specify and adapt the application of the requirements established under this regulation to general purpose ai systems and to specify the information to be shared by the providers of general purpose ai systems in order to enable the providers of the respective high-risk ai system to comply with their obligations under this regulation.
tree..b rbek en in order to ensure a consistent and high level of protection of public interests as regards health safety and fundamental rights common normative standards for all high-risk ai systems should be established.
those standards should be consistent with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union the charter and should be non-discriminatory and in line with the union’s international trade commitments.
in order to introduce a proportionate and effective set of binding rules for ai systems a clearly defined risk-based approach should be followed.
that approach should tailor the type and content of such rules to the intensity and scope of the risks that ai systems can generate.
it is therefore necessary to prohibit certain artificial intelligence practices to lay down requirements for high-risk ai systems and obligations for the relevant operators and to lay down transparency obligations for certain ai systems.
aside from the many beneficial uses of artificial intelligence that technology can also be misused and provide novel and powerful tools for manipulative exploitative and social control practices.
such practices are particularly harmful and should be prohibited because they contradict union values of respect for human dignity freedom equality democracy and the rule of law and union fundamental rights including the right to non-discrimination data protection and privacy and the rights of the child.
tree..b rbek en ai-enabled manipulative techniques can be used to persuade persons to engage in unwanted behaviours or to deceive them by nudging them into decisions in a way that subverts and impairs their autonomy decision-making and free choices.
the placing on the market putting into service or use of certain ai systems materially distorting human behaviour whereby physical or psychological harms are likely to occur are particularly dangerous and should therefore be forbidden.
such ai systems deploy subliminal components such as audio image video stimuli that persons cannot perceive as those stimuli are beyond human perception or other subliminal techniques that subvert or impair person’s autonomy decision-making or free choices in ways that people are not consciously aware of or even if aware not able to control or resist for example in cases of machine-brain interfaces or virtual reality.
in addition ai systems may also otherwise exploit vulnerabilities of a specific group of persons due to their age disability within the meaning of directive eu or a specific social or economic situation that is likely to make those persons more vulnerable to exploitation such as persons living in extreme poverty ethnic or religious minorities.
such ai systems can be placed on the market put into service or used with the objective to or the effect of materially distorting the behaviour of a person and in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause physical or phycological harm to that or another person or groups of persons including harms that may be accumulated over time.
the intention to distort the behaviour may not be presumed if the distortion results from factors external to the ai system which are outside of the control of the provider or the user meaning factors that may not be reasonably foreseen and mitigated by the provider or the user of the ai system.
in any case it is not necessary for the provider or the user to have the intention to cause the physical or psychological harm as long as such harm results from the manipulative or exploitative ai-enabled practices.
the prohibitions for such ai practices are complementary to the provisions contained in directive ec notably that unfair commercial practices leading to economic or financial harms to consumers are prohibited under all circumstances irrespective of whether they are put in place through ai systems or otherwise.
the prohibitions of manipulative and exploitative practices in this regulation should not affect lawful practices in the context of medical treatment such as psychological treatment of a mental disease or physical rehabilitation when those practices are carried out in accordance with the applicable medical standards and legislation.
in addition common and legitimate commercial practices that are in compliance with the applicable law should not in themselves be regarded as constituting harmful manipulative ai practices.
tree..b rbek en ai systems providing social scoring of natural persons by public authorities or by private actors may lead to discriminatory outcomes and the exclusion of certain groups.
they may violate the right to dignity and non-discrimination and the values of equality and justice.
such ai systems evaluate or classify natural persons based on their social behaviour in multiple contexts or known or predicted personal or personality characteristics.
the social score obtained from such ai systems may lead to the detrimental or unfavourable treatment of natural persons or whole groups thereof in social contexts which are unrelated to the context in which the data was originally generated or collected or to a detrimental treatment that is disproportionate or unjustified to the gravity of their social behaviour.
ai systems entailing such unacceptable scoring practices should be therefore prohibited.
this prohibition should not affect lawful evaluation practices of natural persons done for one or more specific purpose in compliance with the law.
the use of ai systems for ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification of natural persons in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement is considered particularly intrusive in the rights and freedoms of the concerned persons to the extent that it may affect the private life of a large part of the population evoke a feeling of constant surveillance and indirectly dissuade the exercise of the freedom of assembly and other fundamental rights.
in addition the immediacy of the impact and the limited opportunities for further checks or corrections in relation to the use of such systems operating in ‘real-time’ carry heightened risks for the rights and freedoms of the persons that are concerned by law enforcement activities.
tree..b rbek en the use of those systems for the purpose of law enforcement should therefore be prohibited except in exhaustively listed and narrowly defined situations where the use is strictly necessary to achieve a substantial public interest the importance of which outweighs the risks.
those situations involve the search for potential victims of crime including missing children certain threats to the life or physical safety of natural persons or of a terrorist attack and the detection localisation identification or prosecution of perpetrators or suspects of the criminal offences referred to in council framework decision jha if those criminal offences are punishable in the member state concerned by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least three years and as they are defined in the law of that member state.
such threshold for the custodial sentence or detention order in accordance with national law contributes to ensure that the offence should be serious enough to potentially justify the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems.
moreover of the criminal offences listed in the council framework decision jha some are in practice likely to be more relevant than others in that the recourse to ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification will foreseeably be necessary and proportionate to highly varying degrees for the practical pursuit of the detection localisation identification or prosecution of a perpetrator or suspect of the different criminal offences listed and having regard to the likely differences in the seriousness probability and scale of the harm or possible negative consequences.
in addition this regulation should preserve the ability for law enforcement border control immigration or asylum authorities to carry out identity checks in the presence of the person that is concerned in accordance with the conditions set out in union and national law for such checks.
in particular law enforcement border control immigration or asylum authorities should be able to use information systems in accordance with union or national law to identify a person who during an identity check either refuses to be identified or is unable to state or prove his or her identity without being required by this regulation to obtain prior authorisation.
this could be for example a person involved in a crime being unwilling or unable due to an accident or a medical condition to disclose their identity to law enforcement authorities.
council framework decision jha of june on the european arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between member states oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en in order to ensure that those systems are used in a responsible and proportionate manner it is also important to establish that in each of those exhaustively listed and narrowly defined situations certain elements should be taken into account in particular as regards the nature of the situation giving rise to the request and the consequences of the use for the rights and freedoms of all persons concerned and the safeguards and conditions provided for with the use.
in addition the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement should be subject to appropriate limits in time and space having regard in particular to the evidence or indications regarding the threats the victims or perpetrator.
the reference database of persons should be appropriate for each use case in each of the situations mentioned above.
each use of a ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification system in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement should be subject to an express and specific authorisation by a judicial authority or by an independent administrative authority of a member state.
such authorisation should in principle be obtained prior to the use of the system with a view to identify a person or persons.
exceptions to this rule should be allowed in duly justified situations of urgency that is situations where the need to use the systems in question is such as to make it effectively and objectively impossible to obtain an authorisation before commencing the use.
in such situations of urgency the use should be restricted to the absolute minimum necessary and be subject to appropriate safeguards and conditions as determined in national law and specified in the context of each individual urgent use case by the law enforcement authority itself.
in addition the law enforcement authority should in such situations seek to obtain an authorisation as soon as possible whilst providing the reasons for not having been able to request it earlier.
tree..b rbek en furthermore it is appropriate to provide within the exhaustive framework set by this regulation that such use in the territory of a member state in accordance with this regulation should only be possible where and in as far as the member state in question has decided to expressly provide for the possibility to authorise such use in its detailed rules of national law.
consequently member states remain free under this regulation not to provide for such a possibility at all or to only provide for such a possibility in respect of some of the objectives capable of justifying authorised use identified in this regulation.
the use of ai systems for ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification of natural persons in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement necessarily involves the processing of biometric data.
the rules of this regulation that prohibit subject to certain exceptions such use which are based on article tfeu should apply as lex specialis in respect of the rules on the processing of biometric data contained in article of directive eu thus regulating such use and the processing of biometric data involved in an exhaustive manner.
therefore such use and processing should only be possible in as far as it is compatible with the framework set by this regulation without there being scope outside that framework for the competent authorities where they act for purpose of law enforcement to use such systems and process such data in connection thereto on the grounds listed in article of directive eu .
in this context this regulation is not intended to provide the legal basis for the processing of personal data under article of directive .
however the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for purposes other than law enforcement including by competent authorities should not be covered by the specific framework regarding such use for the purpose of law enforcement set by this regulation.
such use for purposes other than law enforcement should therefore not be subject to the requirement of an authorisation under this regulation and the applicable detailed rules of national law that may give effect to it.
tree..b rbek en any processing of biometric data and other personal data involved in the use of ai systems for biometric identification other than in connection to the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement as regulated by this regulation should continue to comply with all requirements resulting from article of directive eu .
for purposes other than law enforcement article of regulation eu and article of regulation eu prohibit the processing of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person unless one of the situations in the respective second paragraphs of those two articles applies.
in accordance with article a of protocol no on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom security and justice as annexed to the teu and to the tfeu ireland is not bound by the rules laid down in article point d and of this regulation adopted on the basis of article of the tfeu which relate to the processing of personal data by the member states when carrying out activities falling within the scope of chapter or chapter of title v of part three of the tfeu where ireland is not bound by the rules governing the forms of judicial cooperation in criminal matters or police cooperation which require compliance with the provisions laid down on the basis of article of the tfeu.
in accordance with articles and a of protocol no on the position of denmark annexed to the teu and tfeu denmark is not bound by rules laid down in article point d and of this regulation adopted on the basis of article of the tfeu or subject to their application which relate to the processing of personal data by the member states when carrying out activities falling within the scope of chapter or chapter of title v of part three of the tfeu.
tree..b rbek en high-risk ai systems should only be placed on the union market or put into service if they comply with certain mandatory requirements.
those requirements should ensure that high-risk ai systems available in the union or whose output is otherwise used in the union do not pose unacceptable risks to important union public interests as recognised and protected by union law.
ai systems identified as high-risk should be limited to those that have a significant harmful impact on the health safety and fundamental rights of persons in the union and such limitation minimises any potential restriction to international trade if any.
tree..b rbek en ai systems could produce adverse outcomes to health and safety of persons in particular when such systems operate as components of products.
consistently with the objectives of union harmonisation legislation to facilitate the free movement of products in the internal market and to ensure that only safe and otherwise compliant products find their way into the market it is important that the safety risks that may be generated by a product as a whole due to its digital components including ai systems are duly prevented and mitigated.
for instance increasingly autonomous robots whether in the context of manufacturing or personal assistance and care should be able to safely operate and performs their functions in complex environments.
similarly in the health sector where the stakes for life and health are particularly high increasingly sophisticated diagnostics systems and systems supporting human decisions should be reliable and accurate.
the extent of the adverse impact caused by the ai system on the fundamental rights protected by the charter is of particular relevance when classifying an ai system as high-risk.
those rights include the right to human dignity respect for private and family life protection of personal data freedom of expression and information freedom of assembly and of association and non-discrimination consumer protection workers’ rights rights of persons with disabilities right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial right of defence and the presumption of innocence right to good administration.
in addition to those rights it is important to highlight that children have specific rights as enshrined in article of the eu charter and in the united nations convention on the rights of the child further elaborated in the uncrc general comment no.
as regards the digital environment both of which require consideration of the children’s vulnerabilities and provision of such protection and care as necessary for their well-being.
the fundamental right to a high level of environmental protection enshrined in the charter and implemented in union policies should also be considered when assessing the severity of the harm that an ai system can cause including in relation to the health and safety of persons.
tree..b rbek en as regards high-risk ai systems that are safety components of products or systems or which are themselves products or systems falling within the scope of regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council directive eu of the european parliament and of the council directive eu of the european parliament and of the council regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council and regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council it is appropriate to amend those acts to ensure that the commission takes into account on the basis of the technical and regulatory specificities of each sector and without interfering with existing governance conformity assessment and enforcement mechanisms and authorities established therein the mandatory requirements for high-risk ai systems laid down in this regulation when adopting any relevant future delegated or implementing acts on the basis of those acts.
regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council of march on common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing regulation ec no oj l .. p. .
regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council of february on the approval and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry vehicles oj l .. p. .
regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council of january on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles oj l .. p. .
directive eu of the european parliament and of the council of july on marine equipment and repealing council directive ec oj l .. p. .
directive eu of the european parliament and of the council of may on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of may on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers and of systems components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles amending regulations ec no and ec no and repealing directive ec oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of july on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european union aviation safety agency and amending regulations ec no ec no eu no eu no and directives eu and eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing regulations ec no and ec no of the european parliament and of the council and council regulation eec no oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of november on type-approval requirements for motor vehicles and their trailers and systems components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles as regards their general safety and the protection of vehicle occupants and vulnerable road users amending regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing regulations ec no ec no and ec no of the european parliament and of the council and commission regulations ec no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no and eu oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en as regards ai systems that are safety components of products or which are themselves products falling within the scope of certain union harmonisation legislation it is appropriate to classify them as high-risk under this regulation if the product in question undergoes the conformity assessment procedure with a third-party conformity assessment body pursuant to that relevant union harmonisation legislation.
in particular such products are machinery toys lifts equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres radio equipment pressure equipment recreational craft equipment cableway installations appliances burning gaseous fuels medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices.
the classification of an ai system as high-risk pursuant to this regulation should not necessarily mean that the product whose safety component is the ai system or the ai system itself as a product is considered ‘high-risk’ under the criteria established in the relevant union harmonisation legislation that applies to the product.
this is notably the case for regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council and regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council where a third-party conformity assessment is provided for medium-risk and high-risk products.
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of april on medical devices amending directive ec regulation ec no and regulation ec no and repealing council directives eec and eec oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of april on in vitro diagnostic medical devices and repealing directive ec and commission decision eu oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en as regards high-risk ai systems other than those that are safety components of products or which are themselves products it is appropriate to classify them as high-risk if in the light of their intended purpose they pose a high risk of harm to the health and safety or the fundamental rights of persons taking into account both the severity of the possible harm and its probability of occurrence and they are used in a number of specifically pre-defined areas specified in the regulation.
the identification of those systems is based on the same methodology and criteria envisaged also for any future amendments of the list of high-risk ai systems.
it is also important to clarify that within the high-risk scenarios referred to in annex iii there may be systems that do not lead to a significant risk to the legal interests protected under those scenarios taking into account the output produced by the ai system.
therefore only when such output has a high degree of importance i.e.
is not purely accessory in respect of the relevant action or decision so as to generate a significant risk to the legal interests protected the ai system generating such output should be considered as high-risk.
for instance when the information provided by an ai systems to the human consists of the profiling of natural persons within the meaning of of article regulation eu and article of directive eu and article of regulation eu such information should not typically be considered of accessory nature in the context of high risk ai systems as referred to in annex iii.
however if the output of the ai system has only negligible or minor relevance for human action or decision it may be considered purely accessory including for example ai systems used for translation for informative purposes or for the management of documents.
technical inaccuracies of ai systems intended for the remote biometric identification of natural persons can lead to biased results and entail discriminatory effects.
this is particularly relevant when it comes to age ethnicity race sex or disabilities.
therefore ‘real-time’ and ‘post’ remote biometric identification systems should be classified as high-risk.
in view of the risks that they pose both types of remote biometric identification systems should be subject to specific requirements on logging capabilities and human oversight.
tree..b rbek en as regards the management and operation of critical infrastructure it is appropriate to classify as high-risk the ai systems intended to be used as safety components in the management and operation of critical digital infrastructure as listed in annex i point of the directive on the resilience of critical entities road traffic and the supply of water gas heating and electricity since their failure or malfunctioning may put at risk the life and health of persons at large scale and lead to appreciable disruptions in the ordinary conduct of social and economic activities.
safety components of critical infrastructure including critical digital infrastrucure are systems used to directly protect the physical integrity of critical infrastructure or health and safety of persons and property but which are not necessary in order for the system to function.
failure or malfunctioning of such components might directly lead to risks to the physical integrity of critical infrastructure and thus to risks to health and safety of persons and property.
components intended to be used solely for cybersecurity purposes should not qualify as safety components.
examples of safety components of such critical infrastructure may include systems for monitoring water pressure or fire alarm controlling systems in cloud computing centres.
ai systems used in education or vocational training notably for determining access admission or assigning persons to educational and vocational training institutions or programmes at all levels or to evaluate learning outcomes of persons should be considered high-risk since they may determine the educational and professional course of a person’s life and therefore affect their ability to secure their livelihood.
when improperly designed and used such systems may violate the right to education and training as well as the right not to be discriminated against and perpetuate historical patterns of discrimination.
tree..b rbek en ai systems used in employment workers management and access to self-employment notably for the recruitment and selection of persons for making decisions on promotion and termination and for task allocation based on individual behavior or personal traits or characteristics monitoring or evaluation of persons in work-related contractual relationships should also be classified as high-risk since those systems may appreciably impact future career prospects and livelihoods of these persons.
relevant work-related contractual relationships should involve employees and persons providing services through platforms as referred to in the commission work programme .
such persons should in principle not be considered users within the meaning of this regulation.
throughout the recruitment process and in the evaluation promotion or retention of persons in work-related contractual relationships such systems may perpetuate historical patterns of discrimination for example against women certain age groups persons with disabilities or persons of certain racial or ethnic origins or sexual orientation.
ai systems used to monitor the performance and behaviour of these persons may also impact their rights to data protection and privacy.
tree..b rbek en another area in which the use of ai systems deserves special consideration is the access to and enjoyment of certain essential private and public services and benefits necessary for people to fully participate in society or to improve one’s standard of living.
in particular ai systems used to evaluate the credit score or creditworthiness of natural persons should be classified as high-risk ai systems since they determine those persons’ access to financial resources or essential services such as housing electricity and telecommunication services.
ai systems used for this purpose may lead to discrimination of persons or groups and perpetuate historical patterns of discrimination for example based on racial or ethnic origins disabilities age sexual orientation or create new forms of discriminatory impacts.
considering the very limited scale of the impact and the available alternatives on the market it is appropriate to exempt ai systems for the purpose of creditworthiness assessment and credit scoring when put into service by micro or small entreprises as defined in the annex of commission recommendation ec for their own use.
natural persons applying for or receiving essential public assistance benefits and services from public authorities are typically dependent on those benefits and services and in a vulnerable position in relation to the responsible authorities.
if ai systems are used for determining whether such benefits and services should be denied reduced revoked or reclaimed by authorities including whether beneficiaries are legitimately entitled to such benefits or services those systems may have a significant impact on persons’ livelihood and may infringe their fundamental rights such as the right to social protection non-discrimination human dignity or an effective remedy.
those systems should therefore be classified as high-risk.
nonetheless this regulation should not hamper the development and use of innovative approaches in the public administration which would stand to benefit from a wider use of compliant and safe ai systems provided that those systems do not entail a high risk to legal and natural persons.
finally ai systems used to dispatch or establish priority in the dispatching of emergency first response services should also be classified as high-risk since they make decisions in very critical situations for the life and health of persons and their property.
ai systems are also increasingly used for risk assessment in relation to natural persons and pricing in the case of life and health insurance which if not duly designed developed and used can lead to serious consequences for people’s life and health including financial exclusion and discrimination.
to ensure a consistent approach within the financial services sector the above mentioned exception for micro or small enterprises for their own use should apply insofar as they themselves provide and put into service an ai system for the purpose of selling their own insurance products.
tree..b rbek en actions by law enforcement authorities involving certain uses of ai systems are characterised by a significant degree of power imbalance and may lead to surveillance arrest or deprivation of a natural person’s liberty as well as other adverse impacts on fundamental rights guaranteed in the charter.
in particular if the ai system is not trained with high quality data does not meet adequate requirements in terms of its accuracy or robustness or is not properly designed and tested before being put on the market or otherwise put into service it may single out people in a discriminatory or otherwise incorrect or unjust manner.
furthermore the exercise of important procedural fundamental rights such as the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial as well as the right of defence and the presumption of innocence could be hampered in particular where such ai systems are not sufficiently transparent explainable and documented.
it is therefore appropriate to classify as high-risk a number of ai systems intended to be used in the law enforcement context where accuracy reliability and transparency is particularly important to avoid adverse impacts retain public trust and ensure accountability and effective redress.
in view of the nature of the activities in question and the risks relating thereto those high-risk ai systems should include in particular ai systems intended to be used by law enforcement authorities for individual risk assessments polygraphs and similar tools or to detect the emotional state of natural person for the evaluation of the reliability of evidence in criminal proceedings for predicting the occurrence or reoccurrence of an actual or potential criminal offence based on profiling of natural persons or assessing personality traits and characteristics or past criminal behaviour of natural persons or groups for profiling in the course of detection investigation or prosecution of criminal offences.
ai systems specifically intended to be used for administrative proceedings by tax and customs authorities as well as by financial intelligence units carrying out adminstrative tasks analysing information pursuant to union anti-money laundering legislation should not be considered high-risk ai systems used by law enforcement authorities for the purposes of prevention detection investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
tree..b rbek en ai systems used in migration asylum and border control management affect people who are often in particularly vulnerable position and who are dependent on the outcome of the actions of the competent public authorities.
the accuracy non-discriminatory nature and transparency of the ai systems used in those contexts are therefore particularly important to guarantee the respect of the fundamental rights of the affected persons notably their rights to free movement non-discrimination protection of private life and personal data international protection and good administration.
it is therefore appropriate to classify as high-risk ai systems intended to be used by the competent public authorities charged with tasks in the fields of migration asylum and border control management as polygraphs and similar tools or to detect the emotional state of a natural person for assessing certain risks posed by natural persons entering the territory of a member state or applying for visa or asylum for assisting competent public authorities for the examination of applications for asylum visa and residence permits and associated complaints with regard to the objective to establish the eligibility of the natural persons applying for a status.
ai systems in the area of migration asylum and border control management covered by this regulation should comply with the relevant procedural requirements set by the directive eu of the european parliament and of the council the regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council and other relevant legislation.
directive eu of the european parliament and of the council of june on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection oj l .. p. .
regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council of july establishing a community code on visas visa code oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en certain ai systems intended for the administration of justice and democratic processes should be classified as high-risk considering their potentially significant impact on democracy rule of law individual freedoms as well as the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial.
in particular to address the risks of potential biases errors and opacity it is appropriate to qualify as high-risk ai systems intended to assist judicial authorities in interpreting facts and the law and in applying the law to a concrete set of facts.
such qualification should not extend however to ai systems intended for purely ancillary administrative activities that do not affect the actual administration of justice in individual cases such as anonymisation or pseudonymisation of judicial decisions documents or data communication between personnel administrative tasks.
the fact that an ai system is classified as high risk under this regulation should not be interpreted as indicating that the use of the system is lawful under other acts of union law or under national law compatible with union law such as on the protection of personal data on the use of polygraphs and similar tools or other systems to detect the emotional state of natural persons.
any such use should continue to occur solely in accordance with the applicable requirements resulting from the charter and from the applicable acts of secondary union law and national law.
this regulation should not be understood as providing for the legal ground for processing of personal data including special categories of personal data where relevant unless it is specifically provided for otherwise in this regulation.
to mitigate the risks from high-risk ai systems placed or otherwise put into service on the union market certain mandatory requirements should apply taking into account the intended purpose of the use of the system and according to the risk management system to be established by the provider.
in particular the risk management system should consist of a continuous iterative process planned and run throughout the entire lifecycle of a high-risk ai system.
this process should ensure that the provider identifies and analyses the risks to the health safety and fundamental rights of the persons who may be affected by the system in light of its intended purpose including the possible risks arising from the interaction between the ai system and the environment within which it operates and accordingly adopts suitable risk management measures in the light of state of the art.
tree..b rbek en requirements should apply to high-risk ai systems as regards the quality of data sets used technical documentation and record-keeping transparency and the provision of information to users human oversight and robustness accuracy and cybersecurity.
those requirements are necessary to effectively mitigate the risks for health safety and fundamental rights as applicable in the light of the intended purpose of the system and no other less trade restrictive measures are reasonably available thus avoiding unjustified restrictions to trade.
high data quality is essential for the performance of many ai systems especially when techniques involving the training of models are used with a view to ensure that the high-risk ai system performs as intended and safely and it does not become the source of discrimination prohibited by union law.
high quality training validation and testing data sets require the implementation of appropriate data governance and management practices.
training validation and testing data sets should be sufficiently relevant representative and have the appropriate statistical properties including as regards the persons or groups of persons on which the high-risk ai system is intended to be used.
these datasets should also be as free of errors and complete as possible in view of the intended purpose of the ai system taking into account in a proportionate manner technical feasibility and state of the art the availability of data and the implementation of appropriate risk management measures so that possible shortcomings of the datasets are duly addressed.
the requirement for the datasets to be complete and free of errors should not affect the use of privacy-preserving techniques in the context of the the development and testing of ai systems.
training validation and testing data sets should take into account to the extent required by their intended purpose the features characteristics or elements that are particular to the specific geographical behavioural or functional setting or context within which the ai system is intended to be used.
in order to protect the right of others from the discrimination that might result from the bias in ai systems the providers should be able to process also special categories of personal data as a matter of substantial public interest within the meaning of article g of regulation eu and article g of regulation eu in order to ensure the bias monitoring detection and correction in relation to high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek en a when applying the principles referred to in article c of regulation and article c of regulation in particular the principle of data minimisation in regard to training validation and testing data sets under this regulation due regard should be had to the full life cycle of the ai system.
for the development of high-risk ai systems certain actors such as providers notified bodies and other relevant entities such as digital innovation hubs testing experimentation facilities and researchers should be able to access and use high quality datasets within their respective fields of activities which are related to this regulation.
european common data spaces established by the commission and the facilitation of data sharing between businesses and with government in the public interest will be instrumental to provide trustful accountable and non-discriminatory access to high quality data for the training validation and testing of ai systems.
for example in health the european health data space will facilitate non-discriminatory access to health data and the training of artificial intelligence algorithms on those datasets in a privacy-preserving secure timely transparent and trustworthy manner and with an appropriate institutional governance.
relevant competent authorities including sectoral ones providing or supporting the access to data may also support the provision of high-quality data for the training validation and testing of ai systems.
having information on how high-risk ai systems have been developed and how they perform throughout their lifecycle is essential to verify compliance with the requirements under this regulation.
this requires keeping records and the availability of a technical documentation containing information which is necessary to assess the compliance of the ai system with the relevant requirements.
such information should include the general characteristics capabilities and limitations of the system algorithms data training testing and validation processes used as well as documentation on the relevant risk management system.
the technical documentation should be kept up to date.
furthermore providers or users should keep logs automatically generated by the high-risk ai system including for instance output data start date and time etc.
to the extent that such a system and the related logs are under their control for a period that is appropriate to enable them to fulfil their obligations.
tree..b rbek en to address the opacity that may make certain ai systems incomprehensible to or too complex for natural persons a certain degree of transparency should be required for high-risk ai systems.
users should be able to interpret the system output and use it appropriately.
high-risk ai systems should therefore be accompanied by relevant documentation and instructions of use and include concise and clear information including in relation to possible risks to fundamental rights and discrimination of the persons who may be affected by the system in light of its intended purpose where appropriate.
to facilitate the understanding of the instructions of use by users they should contain illustrative examples as appropriate.
high-risk ai systems should be designed and developed in such a way that natural persons can oversee their functioning.
for this purpose appropriate human oversight measures should be identified by the provider of the system before its placing on the market or putting into service.
in particular where appropriate such measures should guarantee that the system is subject to in-built operational constraints that cannot be overridden by the system itself and is responsive to the human operator and that the natural persons to whom human oversight has been assigned have the necessary competence training and authority to carry out that role.
considering the significant consequences for persons in case of incorrect matches by certain biometric identification systems it is appropriate to provide for an enhanced human oversight requirement for those systems so that no action or decision may be taken by the user on the basis of the identification resulting from the system unless this has been separately verified and confirmed by at least two natural persons.
those persons could be from one or more entities and include the person operating or using the system.
this requirement should not pose unnecessary burden or delays and it could be sufficient that the separate verifications by the different persons are automatically recorded in the logs generated by the system.
high-risk ai systems should perform consistently throughout their lifecycle and meet an appropriate level of accuracy robustness and cybersecurity in accordance with the generally acknowledged state of the art.
the level of accuracy and accuracy metrics should be communicated to the users.
tree..b rbek en the technical robustness is a key requirement for high-risk ai systems.
they should be resilient in relation to harmful or otherwise undesirable behaviour that may result from limitations within the systems or the environment in which the systems operate e.g.
errors faults inconsistencies unexpected situations.
high-risk ai systems should therefore be designed and developed with appropriate technical solutions to prevent or minimize that harmful or otherwise undesirable behaviour such as for instance mechanisms enabling the system to safely interrupt its operation fail-safe plans in the presence of certain anomalies or when operation takes place outside certain predetermined boundaries.
failure to protect against these risks could lead to safety impacts or negatively affect the fundamental rights for example due to erroneous decisions or wrong or biased outputs generated by the ai system.
cybersecurity plays a crucial role in ensuring that ai systems are resilient against attempts to alter their use behaviour performance or compromise their security properties by malicious third parties exploiting the system’s vulnerabilities.
cyberattacks against ai systems can leverage ai specific assets such as training data sets e.g.
data poisoning or trained models e.g.
adversarial attacks or exploit vulnerabilities in the ai system’s digital assets or the underlying ict infrastructure.
to ensure a level of cybersecurity appropriate to the risks suitable measures should therefore be taken by the providers of high-risk ai systems also taking into account as appropriate the underlying ict infrastructure.
tree..b rbek en as part of union harmonisation legislation rules applicable to the placing on the market putting into service and use of high-risk ai systems should be laid down consistently with regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council setting out the requirements for accreditation and the market surveillance of products decision no ec of the european parliament and of the council on a common framework for the marketing of products and regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council on market surveillance and compliance of products ‘new legislative framework for the marketing of products’.
a in line with new legislative framework principles specific obligations for relevant operators within the ai value chain should be set to ensure legal certainty and facilitate compliance with this regulation.
in certain situations those operators could act in more than one role at the same time and should therefore fufil cumulatively all relevant obligations associated with those roles.
for example an operator could act as a distributor and an importer at the same time.
it is appropriate that a specific natural or legal person defined as the provider takes the responsibility for the placing on the market or putting into service of a high-risk ai system regardless of whether that natural or legal person is the person who designed or developed the system.
regulation ec no of the european parliament and of the council of july setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation eec no oj l .. p. .
decision no ec of the european parliament and of the council of july on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing council decision eec oj l .. p. .
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of june on market surveillance and compliance of products and amending directive ec and regulations ec no and eu no text with eea relevance oj l .. p. –.
tree..b rbek en the provider should establish a sound quality management system ensure the accomplishment of the required conformity assessment procedure draw up the relevant documentation and establish a robust post-market monitoring system.
public authorities which put into service high-risk ai systems for their own use may adopt and implement the rules for the quality management system as part of the quality management system adopted at a national or regional level as appropriate taking into account the specificities of the sector and the competences and organisation of the public authority in question.
a to ensure legal certainty it is necessary to clarify that under certain specific conditions any natural or legal person should be considered a provider of a new high-risk ai system and therefore assume all the relevant obligations.
for example this would be the case if that person puts its name or trademark on a high-risk ai system already placed on the market or put into service or if that person modifies the intended purpose of an ai system which is not high-risk and is already placed on the market or put into service in a way that makes the modified system a high-risk ai system.
these provisions should apply without prejudice to more specific provisions established in certain new legislative framework sectorial legislation with which this regulation should apply jointly.
for example article paragraph of regulation establishing that certain changes should not be considered modifications of a device that could affect its compliance with the applicable requirements should continue to apply to high-risk ai systems that are medical devices within the meaning of that regulation.
where a high-risk ai system that is a safety component of a product which is covered by a relevant new legislative framework sectorial legislation is not placed on the market or put into service independently from the product the product manufacturer as defined under the relevant new legislative framework legislation should comply with the obligations of the provider established in this regulation and notably ensure that the ai system embedded in the final product complies with the requirements of this regulation.
tree..b rbek en to enable enforcement of this regulation and create a level-playing field for operators and taking into account the different forms of making available of digital products it is important to ensure that under all circumstances a person established in the union can provide authorities with all the necessary information on the compliance of an ai system.
therefore prior to making their ai systems available in the union where an importer cannot be identified providers established outside the union shall by written mandate appoint an authorised representative established in the union.
a for providers who are not established in the union the authorised representative plays a pivotal role in ensuring the compliance of the high-risk ai systems placed on the market or put into service in the union by those providers and in serving as their contact person established in the union.
given that pivotal role and in order to ensure that responsibility is assumed for the purposes of enforcement of this regulation it is appropriate to make the authorised representative jointly and severally liable with the provider for defective high-risk ai systems.
the liability of the authorised representative provided for in this regulation is without prejudice to the provisions of directive eec on liability for defective products.
deleted given the nature of ai systems and the risks to safety and fundamental rights possibly associated with their use including as regard the need to ensure proper monitoring of the performance of an ai system in a real-life setting it is appropriate to set specific responsibilities for users.
users should in particular use high-risk ai systems in accordance with the instructions of use and certain other obligations should be provided for with regard to monitoring of the functioning of the ai systems and with regard to record-keeping as appropriate.
these obligations should be without prejudice to other user obligations in relation to high-risk ai systems under union or national law and should not apply where the use is made in the course of a personal non-professional activity.
tree..b rbek en a it is appropriate to clarify that this regulation does not affect the obligations of providers and users of ai systems in their role as data controllers or processors stemming from union law on the protection of personal data in so far as the design the development or the use of ai systems involves the processing of personal data.
it is also appropriate to clarify that data subjects continue to enjoy all the rights and guarantees awarded to them by such union law including the rights related to solely automated individual decision-making including profiling.
harmonised rules for the placing on the market the putting into service and the use of ai systems established under this regulation should facilitate the effective implementation and enable the exercise of the data subjects’ rights and other remedies guaranteed under union law on the protection of personal data and of other fundamental rights.
deleted deleted tree..b rbek en standardisation should play a key role to provide technical solutions to providers to ensure compliance with this regulation in line with the state of the art.
compliance with harmonised standards as defined in regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council which are normally expected to reflect the state of the artshould be a means for providers to demonstrate conformity with the requirements of this regulation.
however in the absence of relevant references to harmonised standards the commission should be able to establish via implementing acts common specifications for certain requirements under this regulation as an exceptional fall back solution to facilitate the provider’s obligation to comply with the requirements of this regulation when the standardisation process is blocked or when there are delays in the establishment of an appropriate harmonised standard.
if such delay is due to the technical complexity of the standard in question this should be considered by the commission before contemplating the establishment of common specifications.
an appropriate involvement of small and medium enterprises in the elaboration of standards supporting the implementation of this regulation is essential to promote innovation and competitiveness in the field of artificial intelligence within the union.
such involvement should be appropriately ensured in accordance with article and of regulation .
regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council of october on european standardisation amending council directives eec and eec and directives ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec and ec of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council decision eec and decision no ec of the european parliament and of the council oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en a it is appropriate that without prejudice to the use of harmonised standards and common specifications providers benefit from a presumption of conformity with the relevant requirement on data when their high-risk ai system has been trained and tested on data reflecting the specific geographical behavioural or functional setting within which the ai system is intended to be used.
similarly in line with article of regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council high-risk ai systems that have been certified or for which a statement of conformity has been issued under a cybersecurity scheme pursuant to that regulation and the references of which have been published in the official journal of the european union should be presumed to be in compliance with the cybersecurity requirement of this regulation.
this remains without prejudice to the voluntary nature of that cybersecurity scheme.
in order to ensure a high level of trustworthiness of high-risk ai systems those systems should be subject to a conformity assessment prior to their placing on the market or putting into service.
tree..b rbek en it is appropriate that in order to minimise the burden on operators and avoid any possible duplication for high-risk ai systems related to products which are covered by existing union harmonisation legislation following the new legislative framework approach the compliance of those ai systems with the requirements of this regulation should be assessed as part of the conformity assessment already foreseen under that legislation.
the applicability of the requirements of this regulation should thus not affect the specific logic methodology or general structure of conformity assessment under the relevant specific new legislative framework legislation.
this approach is fully reflected in the interplay between this regulation and the machinery regulation.
while safety risks of ai systems ensuring safety functions in machinery are addressed by the requirements of this regulation certain specific requirements in the machinery regulation will ensure the safe integration of the ai system into the overall machinery so as not to compromise the safety of the machinery as a whole.
the machinery regulation applies the same definition of ai system as this regulation.
with regard to high-risk ai systems related to products covered by regulations and on medical devices the applicability of the requirements of this regulation should be without prejudice and take into account the risk management logic and benefit-risk assessment performed under the medical device framework.
given the more extensive experience of professional pre-market certifiers in the field of product safety and the different nature of risks involved it is appropriate to limit at least in an initial phase of application of this regulation the scope of application of third-party conformity assessment for high-risk ai systems other than those related to products.
therefore the conformity assessment of such systems should be carried out as a general rule by the provider under its own responsibility with the only exception of ai systems intended to be used for the remote biometric identification of persons for which the involvement of a notified body in the conformity assessment should be foreseen to the extent they are not prohibited.
tree..b rbek en in order to carry out third-party conformity assessment for ai systems intended to be used for the remote biometric identification of persons notified bodies should be notified under this regulation by the national competent authorities provided they are compliant with a set of requirements notably on independence competence and absence of conflicts of interests.
notification of those bodies should be sent by national competent authorities to the commission and the other member states by means of the electronic notification tool developed and managed by the commission pursuant to article r of decision .
in line with the commonly established notion of substantial modification for products regulated by union harmonisation legislation it is appropriate that whenever a change occurs which may affect the compliance of a high risk ai system with this regulation e.g.
change of operating system or software architecture or when the intended purpose of the system changes that ai system should be considered a new ai system which should undergo a new conformity assessment.
however changes occuring to the algorithm and the performance of ai systems which continue to ‘learn’ after being placed on the market or put into service i.e.
automatically adapting how functions are carried out should not constitute a substantial modification provided that those changes have been pre-determined by the provider and assessed at the moment of the conformity assessment.
high-risk ai systems should bear the ce marking to indicate their conformity with this regulation so that they can move freely within the internal market.
member states should not create unjustified obstacles to the placing on the market or putting into service of high-risk ai systems that comply with the requirements laid down in this regulation and bear the ce marking.
under certain conditions rapid availability of innovative technologies may be crucial for health and safety of persons and for society as a whole.
it is thus appropriate that under exceptional reasons of public security or protection of life and health of natural persons and the protection of industrial and commercial property member states could authorise the placing on the market or putting into service of ai systems which have not undergone a conformity assessment.
tree..b rbek en in order to facilitate the work of the commission and the member states in the artificial intelligence field as well as to increase the transparency towards the public providers of high-risk ai systems other than those related to products falling within the scope of relevant existing union harmonisation legislation should be required to register themselves and information about their high-risk ai system in a eu database to be established and managed by the commission.
before using a high-risk ai system listed in annex iii users of high-risk ai systems that are public authorities agencies or bodies with the exception of law enforcement border control immigration or asylum authorities and authorities that are users of high-risk ai systems in the area of critical infrastructure shall also register themselves in such database and select the system that they envisage to use.
the commission should be the controller of that database in accordance with regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council.
in order to ensure the full functionality of the database when deployed the procedure for setting the database should include the elaboration of functional specifications by the commission and an independent audit report.
regulation eu of the european parliament and of the council of april on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive ec general data protection regulation oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en certain ai systems intended to interact with natural persons or to generate content may pose specific risks of impersonation or deception irrespective of whether they qualify as high-risk or not.
in certain circumstances the use of these systems should therefore be subject to specific transparency obligations without prejudice to the requirements and obligations for high-risk ai systems.
in particular natural persons should be notified that they are interacting with an ai system unless this is obvious from the point of view of a natural person who is reasonably well-informed observant and circumspect taking into account the circumstances and the context of use.
when implementing such obligation the characteristics of individuals belonging to vulnerable groups due to their age or disability should be taken into account to the extent the ai system is intended to interact with those groups as well.
moreover natural persons should be notified when they are exposed to systems that by processing their biometric data can identify or infer the emotions or intentions of those persons or assign them to specific categories.
such specific categories can relate to aspects such as sex age hair colour eye colour tatoos personal traits ethnic origin personal preferences and interests or to other aspects such as sexual or political orientation.
such information and notifications should be provided in accessible formats for persons with disabilities.
further users who use an ai system to generate or manipulate image audio or video content that appreciably resembles existing persons places or events and would falsely appear to a person to be authentic should disclose that the content has been artificially created or manipulated by labelling the artificial intelligence output accordingly and disclosing its artificial origin.
the compliance with the information obligations referred to above should not be interpreted as indicating that the use of the system or its output is lawful under this regulation or other union and member state law and should be without prejudice to other transparency obligations for users of ai systems laid down in union or national law.
furthermore it should also not be interpreted as indicating that the use of the system or its output impedes the right to freedom of expression and the right to freedom of the arts and sciences guaranteed in the charter of funadamental rights of the eu in particular where the content is part of an evidently creative satirical artistic or fictional work or programme subject to appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of third parties.
tree..b rbek en artificial intelligence is a rapidly developing family of technologies that requires novel forms of regulatory oversight and a safe space for experimentation while ensuring responsible innovation and integration of appropriate safeguards and risk mitigation measures.
to ensure a legal framework that is innovation-friendly future-proof and resilient to disruption national competent authorities from one or more member states should be encouraged to establish artificial intelligence regulatory sandboxes to facilitate the development and testing of innovative ai systems under strict regulatory oversight before these systems are placed on the market or otherwise put into service.
tree..b rbek en the objectives of the ai regulatory sandboxes should be to foster ai innovation by establishing a controlled experimentation and testing environment in the development and pre-marketing phase with a view to ensuring compliance of the innovative ai systems with this regulation and other relevant union and member states legislation to enhance legal certainty for innovators and the competent authorities’ oversight and understanding of the opportunities emerging risks and the impacts of ai use and to accelerate access to markets including by removing barriers for small and medium enterprises smes including start-ups.
the participation in the ai regulatory sandbox should focus on issues that raise legal uncertainty for providers and prospective providers to innovate experiment with ai in the union and contribute to evidence-based regulatory learning.
the supervision of the ai systems in the ai regulatory sandbox should therefore cover their development training testing and validation before the systems are placed on the market or put into service as well as the notion and occurrence of substantial modification that may require a new conformity assessment procedure.
where appropriate national competent authorities establishing ai regulatory sandboxes should cooperate with other relevant authorities including those supervising the protection of fundamental rights and could allow for the involvement of other actors within the ai ecosystem such as national or european standardisation organisations notified bodies testing and experimentation facilities research and experimentation labs innovation hubs and relevant stakeholder and civil society organisations.
to ensure uniform implementation across the union and economies of scale it is appropriate to establish common rules for the regulatory sandboxes’ implementation and a framework for cooperation between the relevant authorities involved in the supervision of the sandboxes.
ai regulatory sandboxes established under this regulation should be without prejudice to other legislation allowing for the establishment of other sandboxes aiming at ensuring compliance with legislation other that this regulation.
where appropriate relevant competent authorities in charge of those other regulatory sandboxes should consider the benefits of using those sandboxes also for the purpose of ensuring compliance of ai systems with this regulation.
upon agreement between the national competent authorities and the participants in the ai regulatory sandbox testing in real world conditions may also be operated and supervised in the framework of the ai regulatory sandbox.
tree..b rbek en -a this regulation should provide the legal basis for the participants in the ai regulatory sandbox to use personal data collected for other purposes for developing certain ai systems in the public interest within the ai regulatory sandbox in line with article and g of regulation eu and article and of regulation eu and without prejudice to articles and of directive eu .
all other obligations of data controllers and rights of data subjects under regulation eu regulation eu and directive eu remain applicable.
in particular this regulation should not provide a legal basis in the meaning of article b of regulation eu and article b of regulation eu .
participants in the sandbox should ensure appropriate safeguards and cooperate with the competent authorities including by following their guidance and acting expeditiously and in good faith to mitigate any high-risks to safety and fundamental rights that may arise during the development and experimentation in the sandbox.
the conduct of the participants in the sandbox should be taken into account when competent authorities decide whether to impose an administrative fine under article of regulation and article of directive .
a in order to accelerate the process of development and placing on the market of high-risk ai systems listed in annex iii it is important that providers or prospective providers of such systems may also benefit from a specific regime for testing those systems in real world conditions without participating in an ai regulatory sandbox.
however in such cases and taking into account the possible consequences of such testing on individuals it should be ensured that appropriate and sufficient guarantees and conditions are introduced by the regulation for providers or prospective providers.
such guarantees should include among others requesting informed consent of natural persons to participate in testing in real world conditions with the exception of law enforcement in cases where the seeking of informed consent would prevent the ai system from being tested.
consent of subjects to participate in such testing under this regulation is distinct from and without prejudice to consent of data subjects for the processing of their personal data under the relevant data protection law.
tree..b rbek en in order to promote and protect innovation it is important that the interests of sme providers and users of ai systems are taken into particular account.
to this objective member states should develop initiatives which are targeted at those operators including on awareness raising and information communication.
moreover the specific interests and needs of sme providers shall be taken into account when notified bodies set conformity assessment fees.
translation costs related to mandatory documentation and communication with authorities may constitute a significant cost for providers and other operators notably those of a smaller scale.
member states should possibly ensure that one of the languages determined and accepted by them for relevant providers’ documentation and for communication with operators is one which is broadly understood by the largest possible number of cross-border users.
a in order to promote and protect innovation the ai-on demand platform all relevant eu funding programmes and projects such as digital europe programme horizon europe implemented by the commission and the member states at national or eu level should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this regulation.
in particular in order to minimise the risks to implementation resulting from lack of knowledge and expertise in the market as well as to facilitate compliance of providers notably smes and notified bodies with their obligations under this regulation the ai-on demand platform the european digital innovation hubs and the testing and experimentation facilities established by the commission and the member states at national or eu level should possibly contribute to the implementation of this regulation.
within their respective mission and fields of competence they may provide in particular technical and scientific support to providers and notified bodies.
a moreover in order to ensure proportionality considering the very small size of some operators regarding costs of innovation it is appropriate to exempt microenterprises from the most costly obligations such as to establish a quality management system which would reduce the administrative burden and the costs for those enterprises without affecting the level of protection and the need for compliance with the requirements for high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek en it is appropriate that the commission facilitates to the extent possible access to testing and experimentation facilities to bodies groups or laboratories established or accredited pursuant to any relevant union harmonisation legislation and which fulfil tasks in the context of conformity assessment of products or devices covered by that union harmonisation legislation.
this is notably the case for expert panels expert laboratories and reference laboratories in the field of medical devices pursuant to regulation eu and regulation eu .
tree..b rbek en in order to facilitate a smooth effective and harmonised implementation of this regulation a european artificial intelligence board should be established.
the board should reflect the various interests of the ai eco-system and be composed of representatives of the member states.
in order to ensure the involvement of relevant stakeholders a standing subgroup of the board should be created.
the board should be responsible for a number of advisory tasks including issuing opinions recommendations advice or contributing to guidance on matters related to the implementation of this regulation including on enforcement matters technical specifications or existing standards regarding the requirements established in this regulation and providing advice to the commission and the member states and their national competent authorities on specific questions related to artificial intelligence.
in order to give some flexibility to member states in the designation of their representatives in the ai board such representatives may be any persons belonging to public entities who should have the relevant competences and powers to facilitate coordination at national level and contribute to the achievement of the boards tasks.
the board should establish two standing sub-groups to provide a platform for cooperation and exchange among market surveillance authorities and notifying authorities on issues related respectively to market surveillance and notified bodies.
the standing subgroup for market surveillance should act as the administrative cooperation group adco for this regulation in the meaning of article of regulation eu .
in line with the role and tasks of the commission pursuant to article of regulation eu the commission should support the activities of the standing subgroup for market surveillance by undertaking market evaluations or studies notably with a view to identifying aspects of this regulation requiring specific and urgent coordination among market surveillance authorities.
the board may establish other standing or temporary sub-groups as appropriate for the purpose of examining specific issues.
the board should also cooperate as appropriate with relevant eu bodies experts groups and networks active in the context of relevant eu legislation including in particular those active under relevant eu regulation on data digital products and services.
tree..b rbek en a the commission should actively support the member states and operators in the implementation and enforcement of this regulation.
in this regard it should develop guidelines on particular topics aiming at facilitating the application of this regulation while paying particular attention to the needs of smes and start-us in sectors most likely to be affected.
in order to support adequate enforcement and the capacities of the member states union testing facilities on ai and a pool of relevant experts should be established and made available to the member states.
member states hold a key role in the application and enforcement of this regulation.
in this respect each member state should designate one or more national competent authorities for the purpose of supervising the application and implementation of this regulation.
member states may decide to appoint any kind of public entity to perform the tasks of the national competent authorities within the meaning of this regulation in accordance with their specific national organisational characteristics and needs.
in order to ensure that providers of high-risk ai systems can take into account the experience on the use of high-risk ai systems for improving their systems and the design and development process or can take any possible corrective action in a timely manner all providers should have a post-market monitoring system in place.
this system is also key to ensure that the possible risks emerging from ai systems which continue to ‘learn’ after being placed on the market or put into service can be more efficiently and timely addressed.
in this context providers should also be required to have a system in place to report to the relevant authorities any serious incidents resulting from the use of their ai systems.
tree..b rbek en in order to ensure an appropriate and effective enforcement of the requirements and obligations set out by this regulation which is union harmonisation legislation the system of market surveillance and compliance of products established by regulation eu should apply in its entirety.
market surveillance authorities designated pursuant to this regulation should have all enforcement powers under this regulation and regulation eu and should exercise their powers and carry out their duties independently impartially and without bias.
although the majority of ai systems are not subject to specific requirements and obligations under this regualtion market surveillance authorities may take measures in relation to all ai systems when they present a risk in accordance with this regulation.
due to the specific nature of union institutions agencies and bodies falling within the scope of this regulation it is appropriate to designate the european data protection supervisor as a competent market surveillance authority for them.
this should be without prejudice to the designation of national competent authorities by the member states.
market surveillance activities should not affect the ability of the supervised entities to carry out their tasks independently when such independence is required by union law.
a this regulation is without prejudice to the competences tasks powers and independence of relevant national public authorities or bodies which supervise the application of union law protecting fundamental rights including equality bodies and data protection authorities.
where necessary for their mandate those national public authorities or bodies should also have access to any documentation created under this regulation.
a specific safeguard procedure should be set for ensuring adequate and timely enforcement against ai systems presenting a risk to health safety and fundamental rights.
the procedure for such ai systems presenting a risk should be applied to high-risk ai systems presenting a risk prohibited systems which have been placed on the market put into service or used in violation of the prohibited practices laid down in this regulation and ai systems which have been made available in violation of the transparency requirements laid down in this regulation and present a risk.
tree..b rbek en union legislation on financial services includes internal governance and risk management rules and requirements which are applicable to regulated financial institutions in the course of provision of those services including when they make use of ai systems.
in order to ensure coherent application and enforcement of the obligations under this regulation and relevant rules and requirements of the union financial services legislation the authorities responsible for the supervision and enforcement of the financial services legislation should be designated as competent authorities for the purpose of supervising the implementation of this regulation including for market surveillance activities as regards ai systems provided or used by regulated and supervised financial institutions unless member states decide to designate another authority to fulfill these market surveillance tasks.
those competent authorities should have all powers under this regulation and regulation eu on market surveillance to enforce the requirements and obligations of this regulation including powers to carry our ex post market surveillance activities that can be integrated as appropriate into their existing supervisory mechanisms and procedures under the relevant union financial services legislation.
it is appropriate to envisage that when acting as market surveillance authorities under this regulation the national authorities responsible for the supervision of credit institutions regulated under directive eu which are participating in the single supervisory mechanism ssm established by council regulation no should report without delay to the european central bank any information identified in the course of their market surveillance activities that may be of potential interest for the european central bank’s prudential supervisory tasks as specified in that regulation.
to further enhance the consistency between this regulation and the rules applicable to credit institutions regulated under directive eu of the european parliament and of the council it is also appropriate to integrate some of the providers’ procedural obligations in relation to risk management post marketing monitoring and documentation into the existing obligations and procedures under directive eu.
in order to avoid overlaps limited derogations should also be envisaged in relation to the quality management system of providers and the monitoring obligation placed on users of high-risk ai systems to the extent that these apply to credit institutions regulated by directive eu.
the same regime should apply to insurance and re-insurance undertakings and insurance holding companies under directive eu solvency ii directive eu of the european parliament and of the council of june on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms amending directive ec and repealing directives ec and ec oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en and the insurance intermediaries under directive eu and other types of financial institutions subject to requirements regarding internal governance arrangements or processes established pursuant to the relevant union financial services legislation to ensure consistency and equal treatment in the financial sector.
the development of ai systems other than high-risk ai systems in accordance with the requirements of this regulation may lead to a larger uptake of trustworthy artificial intelligence in the union.
providers of non-high-risk ai systems should be encouraged to create codes of conduct intended to foster the voluntary application of the requirements applicable to high-risk ai systems adapted in light of the intended purpose of the systems and the lower risk involved.
providers should also be encouraged to apply on a voluntary basis additional requirements related for example to environmental sustainability accessibility to persons with disability stakeholders’ participation in the design and development of ai systems and diversity of the development teams.
the commission may develop initiatives including of a sectorial nature to facilitate the lowering of technical barriers hindering cross-border exchange of data for ai development including on data access infrastructure semantic and technical interoperability of different types of data.
it is important that ai systems related to products that are not high-risk in accordance with this regulation and thus are not required to comply with the requirements set out herein are nevertheless safe when placed on the market or put into service.
to contribute to this objective the directive ec of the european parliament and of the council would apply as a safety net.
in order to ensure trustful and constructive cooperation of competent authorities on union and national level all parties involved in the application of this regulation should respect the confidentiality of information and data obtained in carrying out their tasks in accordance with union or national law.
directive ec of the european parliament and of the council of december on general product safety oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en member states should take all necessary measures to ensure that the provisions of this regulation are implemented including by laying down effective proportionate and dissuasive penalties for their infringement and in respect of the ne bis in idem principle.
for certain specific infringements member states should take into account the margins and criteria set out in this regulation.
the european data protection supervisor should have the power to impose fines on union institutions agencies and bodies falling within the scope of this regulation.
in order to ensure that the regulatory framework can be adapted where necessary the power to adopt acts in accordance with article tfeu should be delegated to the commission to amend the union harmonisation legislation listed in annex ii the high-risk ai systems listed in annex iii the provisions regarding technical documentation listed in annex iv the content of the eu declaration of conformity in annex v the provisions regarding the conformity assessment procedures in annex vi and vii and the provisions establishing the high-risk ai systems to which the conformity assessment procedure based on assessment of the quality management system and assessment of the technical documentation should apply.
it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work including at expert level and that those consultations be conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the interinstitutional agreement of april on better law-making.
in particular to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts the european parliament and the council receive all documents at the same time as member states’ experts and their experts systematically have access to meetings of commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts.
such consultations and advisory support should also be carried out in the framework of the activities of the ai board and its subgroups.
oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation implementing powers should be conferred on the commission.
those powers should be exercised in accordance with regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council.
it is of particular importance that in accordance with the principles laid down in the interinstitutional agreement of april on better law-making whenever broader expertise is needed in the early preparation of draft implementing acts the commission makes use of expert groups consults targeted stakeholders or carries out public consultations as appropriate.
such consultations and advisory support should also be carried out in the framework of the activities of the ai board and its subgroups including the preparation of implementing acts in relation to articles b and .
since the objective of this regulation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can rather by reason of the scale or effects of the action be better achieved at union level the union may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article teu.
in accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that article this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective.
a in order to ensure legal certainty ensure an appropriate adaptation period for operators and avoid disruption to the market including by ensuring continuity of the use of ai systems it is appropriate that this regulation applies to the high-risk ai systems that have been placed on the market or put into service before the general date of application thereof only if from that date those systems are subject to significant changes in their design or intended purpose.
it is appropriate to clarify that in this respect the concept of significant change should be understood as equivalent in substance to the notion of substantial modification which is used with regard only to high-risk ai systems as defined in this regulation.
regulation eu no of the european parliament and of the council of february laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the member states of the commissions exercise of implementing powers oj l .. p.. tree..b rbek en this regulation should apply from … op – please insert the date established in art.
however the infrastructure related to the governance and the conformity assessment system should be operational before that date therefore the provisions on notified bodies and governance structure should apply from … op – please insert the date – three months following the entry into force of this regulation.
in addition member states should lay down and notify to the commission the rules on penalties including administrative fines and ensure that they are properly and effectively implemented by the date of application of this regulation.
therefore the provisions on penalties should apply from op – please insert the date – twelve months following the entry into force of this regulation.
the european data protection supervisor and the european data protection board were consulted in accordance with article of regulation eu and delivered an opinion on …”.
have adopted this regulation title i general provisions article subject matter this regulation lays down a harmonised rules for the placing on the market the putting into service and the use of artificial intelligence systems ‘ai systems’ in the union a prohibitions of certain artificial intelligence practices b specific requirements for high-risk ai systems and obligations for operators of such systems tree..b rbek en article definitions for the purpose of this regulation the following definitions apply ‘artificial intelligence system’ ai system means a system that is designed to operate with elements of autonomy and that based on machine andor human-provided data and inputs infers how to achieve a given set of objectives using machine learning andor logic- and knowledge based approaches and produces system-generated outputs such as content generative ai systems predictions recommendations or decisions influencing the environments with which the ai system interacts a ‘life cycle of an ai system’ means the duration of an ai system from design through retirement.
without prejudice to the powers of the market surveillance authorities such retirement may happen at any point in time during the post-market monitoring phase upon the decision of the provider and implies that the system may not be used further.
an ai system lifecycle is also ended by a substantial modification to the ai system made by the provider or any other natural or legal person in which case the substantially modified ai system shall be considered as a new ai system.
b ‘general purpose ai system’ means an ai system that - irrespective of how it is placed on the market or put into service including as open source software - is intended by the provider to perform generally applicable functions such as image and speech recognition audio and video generation pattern detection question answering translation and others a general purpose ai system may be used in a plurality of contexts and be integrated in a plurality of other ai systems ‘provider’ means a natural or legal person public authority agency or other body that develops an ai system or that has an ai system developed and places that system on the market or puts it into service under its own name or trademark whether for payment or free of charge tree..b rbek en deleted a ‘small and medium-sized enterprise’ smes means an enterprise as defined in the annex of commission recommendation ec concerning the definition of micro small and medium-sized enterprises ‘user’ means any natural or legal person including a public authority agency or other body under whose authority the system is used ‘authorised representative’ means any natural or legal person physically present or established in the union who has received and accepted a written mandate from a provider of an ai system to respectively perform and carry out on its behalf the obligations and procedures established by this regulation a ‘product manufacturer’ means a manufacturer within the meaning of any of the union harmonisation legislation listed in annex ii ‘importer’ means any natural or legal person physically present or established in the union that places on the market an ai system that bears the name or trademark of a natural or legal person established outside the union ‘distributor’ means any natural or legal person in the supply chain other than the provider or the importer that makes an ai system available on the union market ‘operator’ means the provider the product manufacturer the user the authorised representative the importer or the distributor ‘placing on the market’ means the first making available of an ai system on the union market ‘making available on the market’ means any supply of an ai system for distribution or use on the union market in the course of a commercial activity whether in return for payment or free of charge tree..b rbek en ‘putting into service’ means the supply of an ai system for first use directly to the user or for own use in the union for its intended purpose ‘intended purpose’ means the use for which an ai system is intended by the provider including the specific context and conditions of use as specified in the information supplied by the provider in the instructions for use promotional or sales materials and statements as well as in the technical documentation ‘reasonably foreseeable misuse’ means the use of an ai system in a way that is not in accordance with its intended purpose but which may result from reasonably foreseeable human behaviour or interaction with other systems ‘safety component of a product or system’ means a component of a product or of a system which fulfils a safety function for that product or system or the failure or malfunctioning of which endangers the health and safety of persons or property ‘instructions for use’ means the information provided by the provider to inform the user of in particular an ai system’s intended purpose and proper use ‘recall of an ai system’ means any measure aimed at achieving the return to the provider or taking it out of service or disabling the use of an ai system made available to users ‘withdrawal of an ai system’ means any measure aimed at preventing an ai system in the supply chain being made available on the market ‘performance of an ai system’ means the ability of an ai system to achieve its intended purpose ‘conformity assessment’ means the process of verifying whether the requirements set out in title iii chapter of this regulation relating to a high-risk ai system have been fulfilled tree..b rbek en ‘notifying authority’ means the national authority responsible for setting up and carrying out the necessary procedures for the assessment designation and notification of conformity assessment bodies and for their monitoring ‘conformity assessment body’ means a body that performs third-party conformity assessment activities including testing certification and inspection ‘notified body’ means a conformity assessment body designated in accordance with this regulation and other relevant union harmonisation legislation ‘substantial modification’ means a change to the ai system following its placing on the market or putting into service which affects the compliance of the ai system with the requirements set out in title iii chapter of this regulation or a modification to the intended purpose for which the ai system has been assessed.
for high-risk ai systems that continue to learn after being placed on the market or put into service changes to the high-risk ai system and its performance that have been pre-determined by the provider at the moment of the initial conformity assessment and are part of the information contained in the technical documentation referred to in point f of annex iv shall not constitute a substantial modification.
‘ce marking of conformity’ ce marking means a marking by which a provider indicates that an ai system is in conformity with the requirements set out in title iii chapter or in article b of this regulation and other applicable union legal act harmonising the conditions for the marketing of products ‘union harmonisation legislation’ providing for its affixing ‘post-market monitoring system’ means all activities carried out by providers of ai systems to collect and review experience gained from the use of ai systems they place on the market or put into service for the purpose of identifying any need to immediately apply any necessary corrective or preventive actions ‘market surveillance authority’ means the national authority carrying out the activities and taking the measures pursuant to regulation eu tree..b rbek en ‘harmonised standard’ means a european standard as defined in article c of regulation eu no ‘common specification’ means a set of technical specifications as defined in point of article of regulation eu no providing means to comply with certain requirements established under this regulation ‘training data’ means data used for training an ai system through fitting its learnable parameters ‘validation data’ means data used for providing an evaluation of the trained ai system and for tuning its non-learnable parameters and its learning process among other things in order to prevent overfitting whereas the validation dataset can be a separate dataset or part of the training dataset either as a fixed or variable split ‘testing data’ means data used for providing an independent evaluation of the trained and validated ai system in order to confirm the expected performance of that system before its placing on the market or putting into service ‘input data’ means data provided to or directly acquired by an ai system on the basis of which the system produces an output ‘biometric data’ means personal data resulting from specific technical processing relating to the physical physiological or behavioural characteristics of a natural person such as facial images or dactyloscopic data ‘emotion recognition system’ means an ai system for the purpose of identifying or inferring psychological states emotions or intentions of natural persons on the basis of their biometric data ‘biometric categorisation system’ means an ai system for the purpose of assigning natural persons to specific categories on the basis of their biometric data tree..b rbek en ‘remote biometric identification system’ means an ai system for the purpose of identifying natural persons typically at a distance without their active involvement through the comparison of a person’s biometric data with the biometric data contained in a reference data repository ‘‘real-time’ remote biometric identification system’ means a remote biometric identification system whereby the capturing of biometric data the comparison and the identification all occur instantaneously or near instantaneously deleted ‘publicly accessible space’ means any publicly or privately owned physical place accessible to an undetermined number of natural persons regardless of whether certain conditions or circumstances for access have been predetermined and regardless of the potential capacity restrictions ‘law enforcement authority’ means a any public authority competent for the prevention investigation detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security or b any other body or entity entrusted by member state law to exercise public authority and public powers for the purposes of the prevention investigation detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security ‘law enforcement’ means activities carried out by law enforcement authorities or on their behalf for the prevention investigation detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security deleted tree..b rbek en ‘national competent authority’ means any of the following the notifying authority and the market surveillance authority.
as regards ai systems put into service or used by eu institutions agencies offices and bodies the european data protection supervisor shall fulfil the responsibilities that in the member states are entrusted to the national competent authority and as relevant any reference to national competent authorities or market surveillance authorities in this regulation shall be understood as referring to the european data protection supervisor ‘serious incident’ means any incident or malfunctioning of an ai system that directly or indirectly leads to any of the following a the death of a person or serious damage to a person’s health b a serious and irreversible disruption of the management and operation of critical infrastructure c breach of obligations under union law intended to protect fundamental rights d serious damage to property or the environment.
‘critical infrastructure’ means an asset system or part thereof which is necessary for the delivery of a service that is essential for the maintenance of vital societal functions or economic activities within the meaning of article and of directive …..….. on the resilience of critical entities ‘personal data’ means data as defined in point of article of regulation eu ‘non-personal data’ means data other than personal data as defined in point of article of regulation eu tree..b rbek en ‘testing in real world conditions’ means the temporary testing of an ai system for its intended purpose in real world conditions outside of a laboratory or otherwise simulated environment with a view to gathering reliable and robust data and to assessing and verifying the conformity of the ai system with the requirements of this regulation testing in real world conditions shall not be considered as placing the ai system on the market or putting it into service within the meaning of this regulation provided that all conditions under article or article a are fulfilled ‘real world testing plan’ means a document that describes the objectives methodology geographical population and temporal scope monitoring organisation and conduct of testing in real world conditions ‘subject’ for the purpose of real world testing means a natural person who participates in testing in real world conditions ‘informed consent’ means a subjects free and voluntary expression of his or her willingness to participate in a particular testing in real world conditions after having been informed of all aspects of the testing that are relevant to the subjects decision to participate in the case of minors and of incapacitated subjects the informed consent shall be given by their legally designated representative ‘ai regulatory sandbox’ means a concrete framework set up by a national competent authority which offers providers or prospective providers of ai systems the possibility to develop train validate and test where appropriate in real world conditions an innovative ai system pursuant to a specific plan for a limited time under regulatory supervision.
tree..b rbek en article implementing acts in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation as regards machine learning approaches and logic- and knowledged based approaches referred to in article the commission may adopt implementing acts to specify the technical elements of those approaches taking into account market and technological developments.
those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article .
title ia general purpose ai systems article a compliance of general purpose ai systems with this regulation .
without prejudice to articles and of this regulation general purpose ai systems shall only comply with the requirements and obligations set out in article b. .
such requirements and obligations shall apply irrespective of whether the general purpose ai system is placed on the market or put into service as a pre-trained model and whether further fine-tuning of the model is to be performed by the user of the general purpose ai system.
tree..b rbek en requirements for general purpose ai systems and obligations for providers of such article b systems .
general purpose ai systems which may be used as high risk ai systems or as components of high risk ai systems in the meaning of article shall comply with the requirements established in title iii chapter of this regulation as from the date of application of the implementing acts adopted by the commission in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article no later than months after the entry into force of this regulation.
those implementing acts shall specify and adapt the application of the requirements established in title iii chapter to general purpose ai systems in the light of their characteristics technical feasibility specificities of the ai value chain and of market and technological developments.
when fulfilling those requirements the generally acknowledged state of the art shall be taken into account.
providers of general purpose ai systems referred to in paragraph shall comply as from the date of application of the implementing acts referred to in paragraph with the obligations set out in articles aa e f g i j and .
for the purpose of complying with the obligations set out in article e providers shall follow the conformity assessment procedure based on internal control set out in annex vi points and .
providers of such systems shall also keep the technical documentation referred to in article at the disposal of the national competent authorities for a period ending ten years after the general purpose ai system is placed on the union market or put into service in the union.
tree..b rbek en .
providers of general purpose ai systems shall cooperate with and provide the necessary information to other providers intending to put into service or place such systems on the union market as high-risk ai systems or as components of high-risk ai systems with a view to enabling the latter to comply with their obligations under this regulation.
such cooperation between providers shall preserve as appropriate intellectual property rights and confidential business information or trade secrets in accordance with article .
in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation as regards the information to be shared by the providers of general purpose ai systems the commission may adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article .
in complying with the requirements and obligations referred to in paragraphs and - any reference to the intended purpose shall be understood as referring to possible use of the general purpose ai systems as high risk ai systems or as components of ai high risk systems in the meaning of article - any reference to the requirements for high-risk ai systems in chapter ii title iii shall be understood as referring only to the requirements set out in the present article.
article c exceptions to article b .
article b shall not apply when the provider has explicitly excluded all high-risk uses in the instructions of use or information accompanying the general purpose ai system.
such exclusion shall be made in good faith and shall not be deemed justified if the provider has sufficient reasons to consider that the system may be misused.
when the provider detects or is informed about market misuse they shall take all necessary and proportionate measures to prevent such further misuse in particular taking into account the scale of the misuse and the seriousness of the associated risks.
tree..b rbek en title ii prohibited artificial intelligence practices .
the following artificial intelligence practices shall be prohibited article a the placing on the market putting into service or use of an ai system that deploys subliminal techniques beyond a person’s consciousness with the objective to or the effect of materially distorting a person’s behaviour in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause that person or another person physical or psychological harm b the placing on the market putting into service or use of an ai system that exploits any of the vulnerabilities of a specific group of persons due to their age disability or a specific social or economic situation with the objective to or the effect of materially distorting the behaviour of a person pertaining to that group in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause that person or another person physical or psychological harm c the placing on the market putting into service or use of ai systems for the evaluation or classification of natural persons over a certain period of time based on their social behaviour or known or predicted personal or personality characteristics with the social score leading to either or both of the following i detrimental or unfavourable treatment of certain natural persons or groups thereof in social contexts which are unrelated to the contexts in which the data was originally generated or collected tree..b rbek en ii detrimental or unfavourable treatment of certain natural persons or groups thereof that is unjustified or disproportionate to their social behaviour or its gravity d the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces by law enforcement authorities or on their behalf for the purpose of law enforcement unless and in as far as such use is strictly necessary for one of the following objectives i the targeted search for specific potential victims of crime ii the prevention of a specific and substantial threat to the critical infrastructure life health or physical safety of natural persons or the prevention of terrorist attacks iii the localisation or identification of a natural person for the purposes of conducting a criminal investigation prosecution or executing a criminal penalty for offences referred to in article of council framework decision jha and punishable in the member state concerned by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least three years or other specific offences punishable in the member state concerned by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least five years as determined by the law of that member state.
the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement for any of the objectives referred to in paragraph point d shall take into account the following elements a the nature of the situation giving rise to the possible use in particular the seriousness probability and scale of the harm caused in the absence of the use of the system council framework decision jha of june on the european arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between member states oj l .. p. .
tree..b rbek en b the consequences of the use of the system for the rights and freedoms of all persons concerned in particular the seriousness probability and scale of those consequences.
in addition the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement for any of the objectives referred to in paragraph point d shall comply with necessary and proportionate safeguards and conditions in relation to the use in particular as regards the temporal geographic and personal limitations.
as regards paragraphs point d and each use for the purpose of law enforcement of a ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification system in publicly accessible spaces shall be subject to a prior authorisation granted by a judicial authority or by an independent administrative authority of the member state in which the use is to take place issued upon a reasoned request and in accordance with the detailed rules of national law referred to in paragraph .
however in a duly justified situation of urgency the use of the system may be commenced without an authorisation provided that such authorisation shall be requested without undue delay during use of the ai system and if such authorisation is rejected its use shall be stopped with immediate effect.
the competent judicial or administrative authority shall only grant the authorisation where it is satisfied based on objective evidence or clear indications presented to it that the use of the ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification system at issue is necessary for and proportionate to achieving one of the objectives specified in paragraph point d as identified in the request.
in deciding on the request the competent judicial or administrative authority shall take into account the elements referred to in paragraph .
tree..b rbek en .
a member state may decide to provide for the possibility to fully or partially authorise the use of ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces for the purpose of law enforcement within the limits and under the conditions listed in paragraphs point d and .
that member state shall lay down in its national law the necessary detailed rules for the request issuance and exercise of as well as supervision and reporting relating to the authorisations referred to in paragraph .
those rules shall also specify in respect of which of the objectives listed in paragraph point d including which of the criminal offences referred to in point iii thereof the competent authorities may be authorised to use those systems for the purpose of law enforcement.
title iii high-risk ai systems chapter classification of ai systems as high-risk article classification rules for high-risk ai systems .
an ai system that is itself a product covered by the union harmonisation legislation listed in annex ii shall be considered as high risk if it is required to undergo a third-party conformity assessment with a view to the placing on the market or putting into service of that product pursuant to the above mentioned legislation.
tree..b rbek en .
an ai system intended to be used as a safety component of a product covered by the legislation referred to in paragraph shall be considered as high risk if it is required to undergo a third-party conformity assessment with a view to the placing on the market or putting into service of that product pursuant to above mentioned legislation.
this provision shall apply irrespective of whether the ai system is placed on the market or put into service independently from the product.
ai systems referred to in annex iii shall be considered high-risk unless the output of the system is purely accessory in respect of the relevant action or decision to be taken and is not therefore likely to lead to a significant risk to the health safety or fundamental rights.
in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation the commission shall no later than one year after the entry into force of this regulation adopt implementing acts to specify the circumstances where the output of ai systems referred to in annex iii would be purely accessory in respect of the relevant action or decision to be taken.
those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article paragraph .
article amendments to annex iii .
the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article to amend the list in annex iii by adding high-risk ai systems where both of the following conditions are fulfilled a the ai systems are intended to be used in any of the areas listed in points to of annex iii b the ai systems pose a risk of harm to the health and safety or a risk of adverse impact on fundamental rights that is in respect of its severity and probability of occurrence equivalent to or greater than the risk of harm or of adverse impact posed by the high-risk ai systems already referred to in annex iii.
tree..b rbek en .
when assessing for the purposes of paragraph whether an ai system poses a risk of harm to the health and safety or a risk of adverse impact on fundamental rights that is equivalent to or greater than the risk of harm posed by the high-risk ai systems already referred to in annex iii the commission shall take into account the following criteria a the intended purpose of the ai system b the extent to which an ai system has been used or is likely to be used c the extent to which the use of an ai system has already caused harm to the health and safety or adverse impact on the fundamental rights or has given rise to significant concerns in relation to the materialisation of such harm or adverse impact as demonstrated by reports or documented allegations submitted to national competent authorities d the potential extent of such harm or such adverse impact in particular in terms of its intensity and its ability to affect a plurality of persons e the extent to which potentially harmed or adversely impacted persons are dependent on the outcome produced with an ai system in particular because for practical or legal reasons it is not reasonably possible to opt-out from that outcome f the extent to which potentially harmed or adversely impacted persons are in a vulnerable position in relation to the user of an ai system in particular due to an imbalance of power knowledge economic or social circumstances or age g the extent to which the outcome produced with an ai system is not easily reversible whereby outcomes having an impact on the health or safety of persons shall not be considered as easily reversible tree..b rbek en h the extent to which existing union legislation provides for i effective measures of redress in relation to the risks posed by an ai system with the exclusion of claims for damages ii effective measures to prevent or substantially minimise those risks i the magnitude and likelihood of benefit of the ai use for individuals groups or society at large.
the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article to amend the list in annex iii by removing high-risk ai systems where both of the following conditions are fulfilled a the high-risk ai systems concerned no longer pose any significant risks to fundamental rights health or safety taking into account the criteria listed in paragraph b the deletion does not decrease the overall level of protection of health safety and fundamental rights under union law.
chapter requirements for high-risk ai systems article compliance with the requirements .
high-risk ai systems shall comply with the requirements established in this chapter taking into account the generally acknowledged state of the art.
tree..b rbek en .
the intended purpose of the high-risk ai system and the risk management system referred to in article shall be taken into account when ensuring compliance with those requirements.
article risk management system .
a risk management system shall be established implemented documented and maintained in relation to high-risk ai systems.
the risk management system shall be understood as a continuous iterative process planned and run throughout the entire lifecycle of a high-risk ai system requiring regular systematic updating.
it shall comprise the following steps a identification and analysis of the known and foreseeable risks most likely to occur to health safety and fundamental rights in view of the intended purpose of the high-risk ai system b deleted c evaluation of other possibly arising risks based on the analysis of data gathered from the post-market monitoring system referred to in article d adoption of suitable risk management measures in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs.
the risks referred to in this paragraph shall concern only those which may be reasonably mitigated or eliminated through the development or design of the high-risk ai system or the provision of adequate technical information.
tree..b rbek en .
the risk management measures referred to in paragraph point d shall give due consideration to the effects and possible interaction resulting from the combined application of the requirements set out in this chapter with a view to minimising risks more effectively while achieving an appropriate balance in implementing the measures to fulfil those requirements.
the risk management measures referred to in paragraph point d shall be such that any residual risk associated with each hazard as well as the overall residual risk of the high-risk ai systems is judged acceptable.
in identifying the most appropriate risk management measures the following shall be ensured a elimination or reduction of risks identified and evaluated pursuant to paragraph as far as possible through adequate design and development of the high risk ai system b where appropriate implementation of adequate mitigation and control measures in relation to risks that cannot be eliminated c provision of adequate information pursuant to article in particular as regards the risks referred to in paragraph point b of this article and where appropriate training to users.
with a view to eliminating or reducing risks related to the use of the high-risk ai system due consideration shall be given to the technical knowledge experience education training to be expected by the user and the environment in which the system is intended to be used.
high-risk ai systems shall be tested in order to ensure that high-risk ai systems perform in a manner that is consistent with their intended purpose and they are in compliance with the requirements set out in this chapter.
testing procedures may include testing in real world conditions in accordance with article a. tree..b rbek en .
the testing of the high-risk ai systems shall be performed as appropriate at any point in time throughout the development process and in any event prior to the placing on the market or the putting into service.
testing shall be made against preliminarily defined metrics and probabilistic thresholds that are appropriate to the intended purpose of the high-risk ai system.
the risk management system described in paragraphs to shall give specific consideration to whether the high-risk ai system is likely to be accessed by or have an impact on persons under the age of .
for providers of high-risk ai systems that are subject to requirements regarding internal risk management processes under relevant sectorial union law the aspects described in paragraphs to may be part of the risk management procedures established pursuant to that law.
article data and data governance .
high-risk ai systems which make use of techniques involving the training of models with data shall be developed on the basis of training validation and testing data sets that meet the quality criteria referred to in paragraphs to .
training validation and testing data sets shall be subject to appropriate data governance and management practices.
those practices shall concern in particular a the relevant design choices b data collection processes c relevant data preparation processing operations such as annotation labelling cleaning enrichment and aggregation tree..b rbek en d the formulation of relevant assumptions notably with respect to the information that the data are supposed to measure and represent e a prior assessment of the availability quantity and suitability of the data sets that are needed f examination in view of possible biases that are likely to affect health and safety of natural persons or lead to discrimination prohibited by union law g the identification of any possible data gaps or shortcomings and how those gaps and shortcomings can be addressed.
training validation and testing data sets shall be relevant representative and to the best extent possible free of errors and complete.
they shall have the appropriate statistical properties including where applicable as regards the persons or groups of persons on which the high-risk ai system is intended to be used.
these characteristics of the data sets may be met at the level of individual data sets or a combination thereof.
training validation and testing data sets shall take into account to the extent required by the intended purpose the characteristics or elements that are particular to the specific geographical behavioural or functional setting within which the high-risk ai system is intended to be used.
to the extent that it is strictly necessary for the purposes of ensuring bias monitoring detection and correction in relation to the high-risk ai systems the providers of such systems may process special categories of personal data referred to in article of regulation eu article of directive eu and article of regulation eu subject to appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons including technical limitations on the re-use and use of state-of-the-art security and privacy-preserving measures such as pseudonymisation or encryption where anonymisation may significantly affect the purpose pursued.
tree..b rbek en .
for the development of high-risk ai systems not using techniques involving the training of models paragraphs to shall apply only to the testing data sets.
article technical documentation .
the technical documentation of a high-risk ai system shall be drawn up before that system is placed on the market or put into service and shall be kept up-to date.
the technical documentation shall be drawn up in such a way to demonstrate that the high-risk ai system complies with the requirements set out in this chapter and provide national competent authorities and notified bodies with all the necessary information in a clear and comprehensive form to assess the compliance of the ai system with those requirements.
it shall contain at a minimum the elements set out in annex iv or in the case of smes including start-ups any equivalent documentation meeting the same objectives unless deemed inappropriate by the competent authority.
where a high-risk ai system related to a product to which the legal acts listed in annex ii section a apply is placed on the market or put into service one single technical documentation shall be drawn up containing all the information set out in annex iv as well as the information required under those legal acts.
the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article to amend annex iv where necessary to ensure that in the light of technical progress the technical documentation provides all the necessary information to assess the compliance of the system with the requirements set out in this chapter.
tree..b rbek en article record-keeping .
high-risk ai systems shall technically allow for the automatic recording of events ‘logs’ over the duration of the life cycle of the system.
in order to ensure a level of traceability of the ai system’s functioning that is appropriate to the intended purpose of the system logging capabilities shall enable the recording of events relevant for i identification of situations that may result in the ai system presenting a risk within the meaning of article or in a substantial modification ii facilitation of the post-market monitoring referred to in article and iii monitoring of the operation of high-risk ai systems referred to in article .
for high-risk ai systems referred to in paragraph point a of annex iii the logging capabilities shall provide at a minimum a recording of the period of each use of the system start date and time and end date and time of each use b the reference database against which input data has been checked by the system c the input data for which the search has led to a match d the identification of the natural persons involved in the verification of the results as referred to in article .
tree..b rbek en article transparency and provision of information to users .
high-risk ai systems shall be designed and developed in such a way to ensure that their operation is sufficiently transparent with a view to achieving compliance with the relevant obligations of the user and of the provider set out in chapter of this title and enabling users to understand and use the system appropriately.
high-risk ai systems shall be accompanied by instructions for use in an appropriate digital format or otherwise that include concise complete correct and clear information that is relevant accessible and comprehensible to users.
the information referred to in paragraph shall specify a the identity and the contact details of the provider and where applicable of its authorised representative b the characteristics capabilities and limitations of performance of the high-risk ai system including i its intended purpose inclusive of the specific geographical behavioural or functional setting within which the high-risk ai system is intended to be used ii the level of accuracy including its metrics robustness and cybersecurity referred to in article against which the high-risk ai system has been tested and validated and which can be expected and any known and foreseeable circumstances that may have an impact on that expected level of accuracy robustness and cybersecurity iii any known or foreseeable circumstance related to the use of the high-risk ai system in accordance with its intended purpose which may lead to risks to the health and safety or fundamental rights referred to in aricle tree..b rbek en iv when appropriate its behaviour regarding specific persons or groups of persons on which the system is intended to be used v when appropriate specifications for the input data or any other relevant information in terms of the training validation and testing data sets used taking into account the intended purpose of the ai system vi when appropriate description of the expected output of the system.
c the changes to the high-risk ai system and its performance which have been pre-determined by the provider at the moment of the initial conformity assessment if any d the human oversight measures referred to in article including the technical measures put in place to facilitate the interpretation of the outputs of ai systems by the users e the computational and hardware resources needed the expected lifetime of the high-risk ai system and any necessary maintenance and care measures including their frequency to ensure the proper functioning of that ai system including as regards software updates f a description of the mechanism included within the ai system that allows users to properly collect store and interpret the logs where relevant.
article human oversight .
high-risk ai systems shall be designed and developed in such a way including with appropriate human-machine interface tools that they can be effectively overseen by natural persons during the period in which the ai system is in use.
tree..b rbek en .
human oversight shall aim at preventing or minimising the risks to health safety or fundamental rights that may emerge when a high-risk ai system is used in accordance with its intended purpose or under conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse in particular when such risks persist notwithstanding the application of other requirements set out in this chapter.
human oversight shall be ensured through either one or all of the following types of measures a measures identified and built when technically feasible into the high-risk ai system by the provider before it is placed on the market or put into service b measures identified by the provider before placing the high-risk ai system on the market or putting it into service and that are appropriate to be implemented by the user.
for the purpose of implementing paragraphs to the high-risk ai system shall be provided to the user in such a way that natural persons to whom human oversight is assigned are enabled as appropriate and proportionate to the circumstances a to understand the capacities and limitations of the high-risk ai system and be able to duly monitor its operation b to remain aware of the possible tendency of automatically relying or over-relying on the output produced by a high-risk ai system ‘automation bias’ c to correctly interpret the high-risk ai system’s output taking into account for example the interpretation tools and methods available d to decide in any particular situation not to use the high-risk ai system or otherwise disregard override or reverse the output of the high-risk ai system e to intervene on the operation of the high-risk ai system or interrupt the system through a “stop” button or a similar procedure.
tree..b rbek en .
for high-risk ai systems referred to in point a of annex iii the measures referred to in paragraph shall be such as to ensure that in addition no action or decision is taken by the user on the basis of the identification resulting from the system unless this has been separately verified and confirmed by at least two natural persons.
the requirement for a separate verification by at least two natural persons shall not apply to high risk ai systems used for the purpose of law enforcement migration border control or asylum in cases where union or national law considers the application of this requirement to be disproportionate.
article accuracy robustness and cybersecurity .
high-risk ai systems shall be designed and developed in such a way that they achieve in the light of their intended purpose an appropriate level of accuracy robustness and cybersecurity and perform consistently in those respects throughout their lifecycle.
the levels of accuracy and the relevant accuracy metrics of high-risk ai systems shall be declared in the accompanying instructions of use.
high-risk ai systems shall be resilient as regards errors faults or inconsistencies that may occur within the system or the environment in which the system operates in particular due to their interaction with natural persons or other systems.
the robustness of high-risk ai systems may be achieved through technical redundancy solutions which may include backup or fail-safe plans.
high-risk ai systems that continue to learn after being placed on the market or put into service shall be developed in such a way to eliminate or reduce as far as possible the risk of possibly biased outputs influencing input for future operations ‘feedback loops’ are duly addressed with appropriate mitigation measures.
tree..b rbek en .
high-risk ai systems shall be resilient as regards attempts by unauthorised third parties to alter their use or performance by exploiting the system vulnerabilities.
the technical solutions aimed at ensuring the cybersecurity of high-risk ai systems shall be appropriate to the relevant circumstances and the risks.
the technical solutions to address ai specific vulnerabilities shall include where appropriate measures to prevent and control for attacks trying to manipulate the training dataset ‘data poisoning’ inputs designed to cause the model to make a mistake ‘adversarial examples’ or model flaws.
chapter obligations of providers and users of high-risk ai systems and other parties article obligations of providers of high-risk ai systems providers of high-risk ai systems shall a ensure that their high-risk ai systems are compliant with the requirements set out in chapter of this title aa indicate their name registered trade name or registered trade mark the address at which they can be contacted on the high-risk ai system or where that is not possible on its packaging or its accompanying documentation as applicable b have a quality management system in place which complies with article c keep the documentation referred to in article tree..b rbek en d when under their control keep the logs automatically generated by their high-risk ai systems as referred to in article e ensure that the high-risk ai system undergoes the relevant conformity assessment procedure as referred to in article prior to its placing on the market or putting into service f comply with the registration obligations referred to in article g take the necessary corrective actions as referred to in article if the high-risk ai system is not in conformity with the requirements set out in chapter of this title h inform the relevant national competent authority of the member states in which they made the ai system available or put it into service and where applicable the notified body of the non-compliance and of any corrective actions taken i to affix the ce marking to their high-risk ai systems to indicate the conformity with this regulation in accordance with article j upon request of a national competent authority demonstrate the conformity of the high-risk ai system with the requirements set out in chapter of this title.
article quality management system .
providers of high-risk ai systems shall put a quality management system in place that ensures compliance with this regulation.
that system shall be documented in a systematic and orderly manner in the form of written policies procedures and instructions and shall include at least the following aspects a a strategy for regulatory compliance including compliance with conformity assessment procedures and procedures for the management of modifications to the high-risk ai system tree..b rbek en b techniques procedures and systematic actions to be used for the design design control and design verification of the high-risk ai system c techniques procedures and systematic actions to be used for the development quality control and quality assurance of the high-risk ai system d examination test and validation procedures to be carried out before during and after the development of the high-risk ai system and the frequency with which they have to be carried out e technical specifications including standards to be applied and where the relevant harmonised standards are not applied in full the means to be used to ensure that the high-risk ai system complies with the requirements set out in chapter of this title f systems and procedures for data management including data collection data analysis data labelling data storage data filtration data mining data aggregation data retention and any other operation regarding the data that is performed before and for the purposes of the placing on the market or putting into service of high-risk ai systems g the risk management system referred to in article h the setting-up implementation and maintenance of a post-market monitoring system in accordance with article i procedures related to the reporting of a serious incident in accordance with article j the handling of communication with national competent authorities competent authorities including sectoral ones providing or supporting the access to data notified bodies other operators customers or other interested parties k systems and procedures for record keeping of all relevant documentation and information tree..b rbek en l resource management including security of supply related measures m an accountability framework setting out the responsibilities of the management and other staff with regard to all aspects listed in this paragraph.
the implementation of aspects referred to in paragraph shall be proportionate to the size of the provider’s organisation.
a. for providers of high-risk ai systems that are subject to obligations regarding quality management systems under relevant sectorial union law the aspects described in paragraph may be part of the quality management systems pursuant to that law.
for providers that are financial institutions subject to requirements regarding their internal governance arrangements or processes under union financial services legislation the obligation to put in place a quality management system with the exception of paragraph points g h and i shall be deemed to be fulfilled by complying with the rules on internal governance arrangements or processes pursuant to the relevant union financial services legislation.
in that context any harmonised standards referred to in article of this regulation shall be taken into account.
article documentation keeping .
the provider shall for a period ending years after the ai system has been placed on the market or put into service keep at the disposal of the national competent authorities a the technical documentation referred to in article b the documentation concerning the quality management system referred to in article c the documentation concerning the changes approved by notified bodies where applicable tree..b rbek en d the decisions and other documents issued by the notified bodies where applicable e the eu declaration of conformity referred to in article .
a. each member state shall determine conditions under which the documentation referred to in paragraph remains at the disposal of the national competent authorities for the period indicated in that paragraph for the cases when a provider or its authorised representative established on its territory goes bankrupt or ceases its activity prior to the end of that period.
providers that are financial institutions subject to requirements regarding their internal governance arrangements or processes under union financial services legislation shall maintain the technical documentation as part of the documentation kept under the relevant union financial services legislation.
article conformity assessment .
providers of high-risk ai systems shall ensure that their systems undergo the relevant conformity assessment procedure in accordance with article prior to their placing on the market or putting into service.
where the compliance of the ai systems with the requirements set out in chapter of this title has been demonstrated following that conformity assessment the providers shall draw up an eu declaration of conformity in accordance with article and affix the ce marking of conformity in accordance with article .
deleted tree..b rbek en article automatically generated logs .
providers of high-risk ai systems shall keep the logs referred to in article automatically generated by their high-risk ai systems to the extent such logs are under their control by virtue of a contractual arrangement with the user or otherwise by law.
they shall keep them for a period of at least six months unless provided otherwise in applicable union or national law in particular in union law on the protection of personal data.
providers that are financial institutions subject to requirements regarding their internal governance arrangements or processes under union financial services legislation shall maintain the logs automatically generated by their high-risk ai systems as part of the documentation kept under the relevant financial service legislation.
article corrective actions providers of high-risk ai systems which consider or have reason to consider that a high-risk ai system which they have placed on the market or put into service is not in conformity with this regulation shall immediately investigate where applicable the causes in collaboration with the reporting user and take the necessary corrective actions to bring that system into conformity to withdraw it or to recall it as appropriate.
they shall inform the distributors of the high-risk ai system in question and where applicable the authorised representative and importers accordingly.
tree..b rbek en article duty of information where the high-risk ai system presents a risk within the meaning of article and that risk is known to the provider of the system that provider shall immediately inform the national competent authorities of the member states in which it made the system available and where applicable the notified body that issued a certificate for the high-risk ai system in particular of the non-compliance and of any corrective actions taken.
article cooperation with competent authorities providers of high-risk ai systems shall upon request by a national competent authority provide that authority with all the information and documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the high-risk ai system with the requirements set out in chapter of this title in a language which can be easily understood by the authority of the member state concerned.
upon a reasoned request from a national competent authority providers shall also give that authority access to the logs referred to in article automatically generated by the high-risk ai system to the extent such logs are under their control by virtue of a contractual arrangement with the user or otherwise by law.
conditions for other persons to be subject to the obligations of a provider article a .
any natural or legal person shall be considered a provider of a new high-risk ai system for the purposes of this regulation and shall be subject to the obligations of the provider under article in any of the following circumstances a they put their name or trademark on a high-risk ai system already placed on the market or put into service without prejudice to contractual arrangements stipulating that the obligations are allocated otherwise tree..b rbek en b deleted c they make a substantial modification to a high-risk ai system already placed on the market or put into service d they modify the intended purpose of an ai system which is not high-risk and is already placed on the market or put ito service in a way which makes the modified system a high-risk ai system e they place on the market or put into service a general purpose ai system as a high-risk ai system or as a component of a high-risk ai system.
where the circumstances referred to in paragraph point a or c occur the provider that initially placed the high-risk ai system on the market or put it into service shall no longer be considered a provider for the purposes of this regulation.
for high-risk ai systems that are safety components of products to which the legal acts listed in annex ii section a apply the manufacturer of those products shall be considered the provider of the high-risk ai system and shall be subject to the obligations under article under either of the following scenarios i the high-risk ai system is placed on the market together with the product under the name or trademark of the product manufacturer ii the high-risk ai system is put into service under the the name or trademark of the product manufacturer after the product has been placed on the market.
article deleted tree..b rbek en article authorised representatives .
prior to making their systems available on the union market providers established outside the union shall by written mandate appoint an authorised representative which is established in the union.
the authorised representative shall perform the tasks specified in the mandate received from the provider.
for the purpose of this regulation the mandate shall empower the authorised representative to carry out only the following tasks -a verify that the eu declaration of conformity and the technical documentation have been drawn up and that an appropriate conformity assessment procedure has been carried out by the provider a keep at the disposal of the national competent authorities and national authorities referred to in article for a period ending years after the high-risk ai system has been placed on the market or put into service the contact details of the provider by which the authorised representative has been appointed a copy of the eu declaration of conformity the technical documentation and if applicable the certificate issued by the notified body b provide a national competent authority upon a reasoned request with all the information and documentation including that kept according to point b necessary to demonstrate the conformity of a high-risk ai system with the requirements set out in chapter of this title including access to the logs referred to in article automatically generated by the high-risk ai system to the extent such logs are under the control of the provider by virtue of a contractual arrangement with the user or otherwise by law c cooperate with national competent authorities upon a reasoned request on any action the latter takes in relation to the high-risk ai system.
tree..b rbek en d comply with the registration obligations referred to in article and if the registration of the system is carried out by the provider itself verify that the information referred to in annex viii part ii to is correct.
the authorised representative shall terminate the mandate if it has sufficient reasons to consider that the provider acts contrary to its obligations under this regulation.
in such a case it shall also immediately inform the market surveillance authority of the member state in which it is established as well as where applicable the relevant notified body about the termination of the mandate and the reasons thereof.
the authorised representative shall be legally liable for defective ai systems on the same basis as and jointly and severally with the provider in respect of its potential liability under council directive eec.
article obligations of importers .
before placing a high-risk ai system on the market importers of such system shall ensure that such a system is in conformity with this regulation by verifying that a the relevant conformity assessment procedure referred to in article has been carried out by the provider of that ai system b the provider has drawn up the technical documentation in accordance with annex iv c the system bears the required ce conformity marking and is accompanied by the eu declaration of conformity and instructions of use d the authorised representative referred to in article has been established by the provider.
tree..b rbek en .
where an importer has sufficient reasons to consider that a high-risk ai system is not in conformity with this regulation or is falsified or accompanied by falsified documentation it shall not place that system on the market until that ai system has been brought into conformity.
where the high-risk ai system presents a risk within the meaning of article the importer shall inform the provider of the ai system the authorised representatives and the market surveillance authorities to that effect.
importers shall indicate their name registered trade name or registered trade mark and the address at which they can be contacted on the high-risk ai system or where that is not possible on its packaging or its accompanying documentation as applicable.
importers shall ensure that while a high-risk ai system is under their responsibility where applicable storage or transport conditions do not jeopardise its compliance with the requirements set out in chapter of this title.
a. importers shall keep for a period ending years after the ai system has been placed on the market or put into service a copy of the certificate issued by the notified body where applicable of the instructions for use and of the eu declaration of conformity.
importers shall provide national competent authorities upon a reasoned request with all necessary information and documentation including that kept in accordance with paragraph to demonstrate the conformity of a high-risk ai system with the requirements set out in chapter of this title in a language which can be easily understood by that national competent authority.
to this purpose they shall also ensure that the technical documentation can be made available to those authorities.
a. importers shall cooperate with national competent authorities on any action those authorities take in relation to an ai system of which they are the importer.
tree..b rbek en article obligations of distributors .
before making a high-risk ai system available on the market distributors shall verify that the high-risk ai system bears the required ce conformity marking that it is accompanied by a copy of eu declaration of conformity and instruction of use and that the provider and the importer of the system as applicable have complied with their obligations set out article point b and respectively.
where a distributor considers or has reason to consider that a high-risk ai system is not in conformity with the requirements set out in chapter of this title it shall not make the high-risk ai system available on the market until that system has been brought into conformity with those requirements.
furthermore where the system presents a risk within the meaning of article the distributor shall inform the provider or the importer of the system as applicable to that effect.
distributors shall ensure that while a high-risk ai system is under their responsibility where applicable storage or transport conditions do not jeopardise the compliance of the system with the requirements set out in chapter of this title.
a distributor that considers or has reason to consider that a high-risk ai system which it has made available on the market is not in conformity with the requirements set out in chapter of this title shall take the corrective actions necessary to bring that system into conformity with those requirements to withdraw it or recall it or shall ensure that the provider the importer or any relevant operator as appropriate takes those corrective actions.
where the high-risk ai system presents a risk within the meaning of article the distributor shall immediately inform the national competent authorities of the member states in which it has made the product available to that effect giving details in particular of the non-compliance and of any corrective actions taken.
tree..b rbek en .
upon a reasoned request from a national competent authority distributors of high-risk ai systems shall provide that authority with all the information and documentation regarding its activities as described in paragraph to .
a. distributors shall cooperate with national competent authorities on any action those authorities take in relation to an ai system of which they are the distributor.
article deleted article obligations of users of high-risk ai systems .
users of high-risk ai systems shall use such systems in accordance with the instructions of use accompanying the systems pursuant to paragraphs and of this article.
a. users shall assign human oversight to natural persons who have the necessary competence training and authority.
the obligations in paragraph and a are without prejudice to other user obligations under union or national law and to the user’s discretion in organising its own resources and activities for the purpose of implementing the human oversight measures indicated by the provider.
without prejudice to paragraph to the extent the user exercises control over the input data that user shall ensure that input data is relevant in view of the intended purpose of the high-risk ai system.
tree..b rbek en .
users shall implement human oversight and monitor the operation of the high-risk ai system on the basis of the instructions of use.
when they have reasons to consider that the use in accordance with the instructions of use may result in the ai system presenting a risk within the meaning of article they shall inform the provider or distributor and suspend the use of the system.
they shall also inform the provider or distributor when they have identified any serious incident and interrupt the use of the ai system.
in case the user is not able to reach the provider article shall apply mutatis mutandis.
this obligation shall not cover sensitive operational data of users of ai systems which are law enforcement authorities.
for users that are financial institutions subject to requirements regarding their internal governance arrangements or processes under union financial services legislation the monitoring obligation set out in the first subparagraph shall be deemed to be fulfilled by complying with the rules on internal governance arrangements processes and mechanisms pursuant to the relevant financial service legislation.
users of high-risk ai systems shall keep the logs referred to in article automatically generated by that high-risk ai system to the extent such logs are under their control.
they shall keep them for a period of at least six months unless provided otherwise in applicable union or national law in particular in union law on the protection of personal data.
users that are financial institutions subject to requirements regarding their internal governance arrangements or processes under union financial services legislation shall maintain the logs as part of the documentation kept pursuant to the relevant union financial service legislation.
a. users of high-risk ai systems that are public authorities agencies or bodies with the exception of law enforcement border control immigration or asylum authorities shall comply with the registration obligations referred to in article .
when they find that the system that they envisage to use has not been registered in the eu database referred to in article they shall not use that system and shall inform the provider or the distributor.
tree..b rbek en .
users of high-risk ai systems shall use the information provided under article to comply with their obligation to carry out a data protection impact assessment under article of regulation eu or article of directive eu where applicable.
a. users shall cooperate with national competent authorities on any action those authorities take in relation to an ai system of which they are the user.
chapter notifiying authorities and notified bodies article notifying authorities .
each member state shall designate or establish at least one notifying authority responsible for setting up and carrying out the necessary procedures for the assessment designation and notification of conformity assessment bodies and for their monitoring.
member states may decide that the assessment and monitoring referred to in paragraph shall be carried out by a national accreditation body within the meaning of and in accordance with regulation ec no .
notifying authorities shall be established organised and operated in such a way that no conflict of interest arises with conformity assessment bodies and the objectivity and impartiality of their activities are safeguarded.
tree..b rbek en
the purpose purpose of of this this regulation regulation is is to to improve improve the the functioning functioning of of the the internal internal market market by by laying laying down down a a uniform uniform legal legal framework framework in in particular particular for for the the development development marketing marketing and and use use of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence in in conformity conformity with with union union values.
the purpose of purpose of this of this regulation this regulation is regulation is to is to improve to improve the improve the functioning the functioning of functioning of the of the internal the internal market internal market by market by laying by laying down laying down a down a uniform a uniform legal uniform legal framework legal framework in framework in particular in particular for particular for the for the development the development marketing development marketing and marketing and use and use of use of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence in intelligence in conformity in conformity with conformity with union with union values.
the purpose of this purpose of this regulation of this regulation is this regulation is to regulation is to improve is to improve the to improve the functioning improve the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the internal of the internal market the internal market by internal market by laying market by laying down by laying down a laying down a uniform down a uniform legal a uniform legal framework uniform legal framework in legal framework in particular framework in particular for in particular for the particular for the development for the development marketing the development marketing and development marketing and use marketing and use of and use of artificial use of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence in artificial intelligence in conformity intelligence in conformity with in conformity with union conformity with union values.
this regulation regulation pursues pursues a a number number of of overriding overriding reasons reasons of of public public interest interest such such as as a a high high level level of of protection protection of of health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights and and it it ensures ensures the the free free movement movement of of ai-based ai-based goods goods and and services services cross-border cross-border thus thus preventing preventing member member states states from from imposing imposing restrictions restrictions on on the the development development marketing marketing and and use use of of ai ai systems systems unless unless explicitly explicitly authorised authorised by by this this regulation.
this regulation pursues regulation pursues a pursues a number a number of number of overriding of overriding reasons overriding reasons of reasons of public of public interest public interest such interest such as such as a as a high a high level high level of level of protection of protection of protection of health of health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights and rights and it and it ensures it ensures the ensures the free the free movement free movement of movement of ai-based of ai-based goods ai-based goods and goods and services and services cross-border services cross-border thus cross-border thus preventing thus preventing member preventing member states member states from states from imposing from imposing restrictions imposing restrictions on restrictions on the on the development the development marketing development marketing and marketing and use and use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems unless systems unless explicitly unless explicitly authorised explicitly authorised by authorised by this by this regulation.
this regulation pursues a regulation pursues a number pursues a number of a number of overriding number of overriding reasons of overriding reasons of overriding reasons of public reasons of public interest of public interest such public interest such as interest such as a such as a high as a high level a high level of high level of protection level of protection of of protection of health protection of health safety of health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights and fundamental rights and it rights and it ensures and it ensures the it ensures the free ensures the free movement the free movement of free movement of ai-based movement of ai-based goods of ai-based goods and ai-based goods and services goods and services cross-border and services cross-border thus services cross-border thus preventing cross-border thus preventing member thus preventing member states preventing member states from member states from imposing states from imposing restrictions from imposing restrictions on imposing restrictions on the restrictions on the development on the development marketing the development marketing and development marketing and use marketing and use of and use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems unless ai systems unless explicitly systems unless explicitly authorised unless explicitly authorised by explicitly authorised by this authorised by this regulation.
artificial intelligence intelligence systems systems ai ai systems systems can can be be easily easily deployed deployed in in multiple multiple sectors sectors of of the the economy economy and and society society including including cross cross border border and and circulate circulate throughout throughout the the union.
artificial intelligence systems intelligence systems ai systems ai systems ai systems can systems can be can be easily be easily deployed easily deployed in deployed in multiple in multiple sectors multiple sectors of sectors of the of the economy the economy and economy and society and society including society including cross including cross border cross border and border and circulate and circulate throughout circulate throughout the throughout the union.
artificial intelligence systems ai intelligence systems ai systems systems ai systems can ai systems can be systems can be easily can be easily deployed be easily deployed in easily deployed in multiple deployed in multiple sectors in multiple sectors of multiple sectors of the sectors of the economy of the economy and the economy and society economy and society including and society including cross society including cross border including cross border and cross border and circulate border and circulate throughout and circulate throughout the circulate throughout the union.
certain member member states states have have already already explored explored the the adoption adoption of of national national rules rules to to ensure ensure that that artificial artificial intelligence intelligence is is safe safe and and is is developed developed and and used used in in compliance compliance with with fundamental fundamental rights rights obligations.
certain member states member states have states have already have already explored already explored the explored the adoption the adoption of adoption of national of national rules national rules to rules to ensure to ensure that ensure that artificial that artificial intelligence artificial intelligence is intelligence is safe is safe and safe and is and is developed is developed and developed and used and used in used in compliance in compliance with compliance with fundamental with fundamental rights fundamental rights obligations.
certain member states have member states have already states have already explored have already explored the already explored the adoption explored the adoption of the adoption of national adoption of national rules of national rules to national rules to ensure rules to ensure that to ensure that artificial ensure that artificial intelligence that artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence is safe intelligence is safe and is safe and is safe and is developed and is developed and is developed and used developed and used in and used in compliance used in compliance with in compliance with fundamental compliance with fundamental rights with fundamental rights obligations.
differing national national rules rules may may lead lead to to fragmentation fragmentation of of the the internal internal market market and and decrease decrease legal legal certainty certainty for for operators operators that that develop develop import import or or use use ai ai systems.
differing national rules national rules may rules may lead may lead to lead to fragmentation to fragmentation of fragmentation of the of the internal the internal market internal market and market and decrease and decrease legal decrease legal certainty legal certainty for certainty for operators for operators that operators that develop that develop import develop import or import or use or use ai use ai systems.
differing national rules may national rules may lead rules may lead to may lead to fragmentation lead to fragmentation of to fragmentation of the fragmentation of the internal of the internal market the internal market and internal market and decrease market and decrease legal and decrease legal certainty decrease legal certainty for legal certainty for operators certainty for operators that for operators that develop operators that develop import that develop import or develop import or use import or use ai or use ai systems.
a consistent consistent and and high high level level of of protection protection throughout throughout the the union union should should therefore therefore be be ensured ensured while while divergences divergences hampering hampering the the free free circulation circulation of of ai ai systems systems and and related related products products and and services services within within the the internal internal market market should should be be prevented prevented by by laying laying down down uniform uniform obligations obligations for for operators operators and and guaranteeing guaranteeing the the uniform uniform protection protection of of overriding overriding reasons reasons of of public public interest interest and and of of rights rights of of persons persons throughout throughout the the internal internal market market based based on on article article of of the the treaty treaty on on the the functioning functioning of of the the european european union union tfeu.
a consistent and consistent and high and high level high level of level of protection of protection throughout protection throughout the throughout the union the union should union should therefore should therefore be therefore be ensured be ensured while ensured while divergences while divergences hampering divergences hampering the hampering the free the free circulation free circulation of circulation of ai of ai systems ai systems and systems and related and related products related products and products and services and services within services within the within the internal the internal market internal market should market should be should be prevented be prevented by prevented by laying by laying down laying down uniform down uniform obligations uniform obligations for obligations for operators for operators and operators and guaranteeing and guaranteeing the guaranteeing the uniform the uniform protection uniform protection of protection of overriding of overriding reasons overriding reasons of reasons of public of public interest public interest and interest and of and of rights of rights of rights of persons of persons throughout persons throughout the throughout the internal the internal market internal market based market based on based on article on article of article of the of the treaty the treaty on treaty on the on the functioning the functioning of functioning of the of the european the european union european union tfeu.
a consistent and high consistent and high level and high level of high level of protection level of protection throughout of protection throughout the protection throughout the union throughout the union should the union should therefore union should therefore be should therefore be ensured therefore be ensured while be ensured while divergences ensured while divergences hampering while divergences hampering the divergences hampering the free hampering the free circulation the free circulation of free circulation of ai circulation of ai systems of ai systems and ai systems and related systems and related products and related products and related products and services products and services within and services within the services within the internal within the internal market the internal market should internal market should be market should be prevented should be prevented by be prevented by laying prevented by laying down by laying down uniform laying down uniform obligations down uniform obligations for uniform obligations for operators obligations for operators and for operators and guaranteeing operators and guaranteeing the and guaranteeing the uniform guaranteeing the uniform protection the uniform protection of uniform protection of overriding protection of overriding reasons of overriding reasons of overriding reasons of public reasons of public interest of public interest and public interest and of interest and of rights and of rights of of rights of persons rights of persons throughout of persons throughout the persons throughout the internal throughout the internal market the internal market based internal market based on market based on article based on article of on article of the article of the treaty of the treaty on the treaty on the treaty on the functioning on the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the european of the european union the european union tfeu.
to the the extent extent that that this this regulation regulation contains contains specific specific rules rules on on the the protection protection of of individuals individuals with with regard regard to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data concerning concerning restrictions restrictions of of the the use use of of ai ai systems systems for for ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement it it is is appropriate appropriate to to base base this this regulation regulation in in as as far far as as those those specific specific rules rules are are concerned concerned on on article article of of the the tfeu.
to the extent the extent that extent that this that this regulation this regulation contains regulation contains specific contains specific rules specific rules on rules on the on the protection the protection of protection of individuals of individuals with individuals with regard with regard to regard to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data concerning data concerning restrictions concerning restrictions of restrictions of the of the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems for systems for ‘real-time’ for ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification in identification in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement it enforcement it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to base to base this base this regulation this regulation in regulation in as in as far as far as far as those as those specific those specific rules specific rules are rules are concerned are concerned on concerned on article on article of article of the of the tfeu.
to the extent that the extent that this extent that this regulation that this regulation contains this regulation contains specific regulation contains specific rules contains specific rules on specific rules on the rules on the protection on the protection of the protection of individuals protection of individuals with of individuals with regard individuals with regard to with regard to the regard to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data concerning personal data concerning restrictions data concerning restrictions of concerning restrictions of the restrictions of the use of the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems for ai systems for ‘real-time’ systems for ‘real-time’ remote for ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification in biometric identification in publicly identification in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement it law enforcement it is enforcement it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to base appropriate to base this to base this regulation base this regulation in this regulation in as regulation in as far in as far as as far as those far as those specific as those specific rules those specific rules are specific rules are concerned rules are concerned on are concerned on article concerned on article of on article of the article of the tfeu.
in light light of of those those specific specific rules rules and and the the recourse recourse to to article article tfeu tfeu it it is is appropriate appropriate to to consult consult the the european european data data protection protection board.
in light of light of those of those specific those specific rules specific rules and rules and the and the recourse the recourse to recourse to article to article tfeu article tfeu it tfeu it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to consult to consult the consult the european the european data european data protection data protection board.
in light of those light of those specific of those specific rules those specific rules and specific rules and the rules and the recourse and the recourse to the recourse to article recourse to article tfeu to article tfeu it article tfeu it is tfeu it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to consult appropriate to consult the to consult the european consult the european data the european data protection european data protection board.
tree..b rbek rbek en en artificial artificial intelligence intelligence is is a a fast fast evolving evolving family family of of technologies technologies that that can can contribute contribute to to a a wide wide array array of of economic economic and and societal societal benefits benefits across across the the entire entire spectrum spectrum of of industries industries and and social social activities.
tree..b rbek en rbek en artificial en artificial intelligence artificial intelligence is intelligence is a is a fast a fast evolving fast evolving family evolving family of family of technologies of technologies that technologies that can that can contribute can contribute to contribute to a to a wide a wide array wide array of array of economic of economic and economic and societal and societal benefits societal benefits across benefits across the across the entire the entire spectrum entire spectrum of spectrum of industries of industries and industries and social and social activities.
tree..b rbek en artificial rbek en artificial intelligence en artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence is a intelligence is a fast is a fast evolving a fast evolving family fast evolving family of evolving family of technologies family of technologies that of technologies that can technologies that can contribute that can contribute to can contribute to a contribute to a wide to a wide array a wide array of wide array of economic array of economic and of economic and societal economic and societal benefits and societal benefits across societal benefits across the benefits across the entire across the entire spectrum the entire spectrum of entire spectrum of industries spectrum of industries and of industries and social industries and social activities.
by improving improving prediction prediction optimising optimising operations operations and and resource resource allocation allocation and and personalising personalising digital digital solutions solutions available available for for individuals individuals and and organisations organisations the the use use of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence can can provide provide key key competitive competitive advantages advantages to to companies companies and and support support socially socially and and environmentally environmentally beneficial beneficial outcomes outcomes for for example example in in healthcare healthcare farming farming education education and and training training infrastructure infrastructure management management energy energy transport transport and and logistics logistics public public services services security security justice justice resource resource and and energy energy efficiency efficiency and and climate climate change change mitigation mitigation and and adaptation.
by improving prediction improving prediction optimising prediction optimising operations optimising operations and operations and resource and resource allocation resource allocation and allocation and personalising and personalising digital personalising digital solutions digital solutions available solutions available for available for individuals for individuals and individuals and organisations and organisations the organisations the use the use of use of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence can intelligence can provide can provide key provide key competitive key competitive advantages competitive advantages to advantages to companies to companies and companies and support and support socially support socially and socially and environmentally and environmentally beneficial environmentally beneficial outcomes beneficial outcomes for outcomes for example for example in example in healthcare in healthcare farming healthcare farming education farming education and education and training and training infrastructure training infrastructure management infrastructure management energy management energy transport energy transport and transport and logistics and logistics public logistics public services public services security services security justice security justice resource justice resource and resource and energy and energy efficiency energy efficiency and efficiency and climate and climate change climate change mitigation change mitigation and mitigation and adaptation.
by improving prediction optimising improving prediction optimising operations prediction optimising operations and optimising operations and resource operations and resource allocation and resource allocation and resource allocation and personalising allocation and personalising digital and personalising digital solutions personalising digital solutions available digital solutions available for solutions available for individuals available for individuals and for individuals and organisations individuals and organisations the and organisations the use organisations the use of the use of artificial use of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence can artificial intelligence can provide intelligence can provide key can provide key competitive provide key competitive advantages key competitive advantages to competitive advantages to companies advantages to companies and to companies and support companies and support socially and support socially and support socially and environmentally socially and environmentally beneficial and environmentally beneficial outcomes environmentally beneficial outcomes for beneficial outcomes for example outcomes for example in for example in healthcare example in healthcare farming in healthcare farming education healthcare farming education and farming education and training education and training infrastructure and training infrastructure management training infrastructure management energy infrastructure management energy transport management energy transport and energy transport and logistics transport and logistics public and logistics public services logistics public services security public services security justice services security justice resource security justice resource and justice resource and energy resource and energy efficiency and energy efficiency and energy efficiency and climate efficiency and climate change and climate change mitigation climate change mitigation and change mitigation and adaptation.
at the the same same time time depending depending on on the the circumstances circumstances regarding regarding its its specific specific application application and and use use artificial artificial intelligence intelligence may may generate generate risks risks and and cause cause harm harm to to public public interests interests and and rights rights that that are are protected protected by by union union law.
at the same the same time same time depending time depending on depending on the on the circumstances the circumstances regarding circumstances regarding its regarding its specific its specific application specific application and application and use and use artificial use artificial intelligence artificial intelligence may intelligence may generate may generate risks generate risks and risks and cause and cause harm cause harm to harm to public to public interests public interests and interests and rights and rights that rights that are that are protected are protected by protected by union by union law.
at the same time the same time depending same time depending on time depending on the depending on the circumstances on the circumstances regarding the circumstances regarding its circumstances regarding its specific regarding its specific application its specific application and specific application and use application and use artificial and use artificial intelligence use artificial intelligence may artificial intelligence may generate intelligence may generate risks may generate risks and generate risks and cause risks and cause harm and cause harm to cause harm to public harm to public interests to public interests and public interests and rights interests and rights that and rights that are rights that are protected that are protected by are protected by union protected by union law.
such harm harm might might be be material material or or immaterial.
such harm might harm might be might be material be material or material or immaterial.
such harm might be harm might be material might be material or be material or immaterial.
a union union legal legal framework framework laying laying down down harmonised harmonised rules rules on on artificial artificial intelligence intelligence is is therefore therefore needed needed to to foster foster the the development development use use and and uptake uptake of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence in in the the internal internal market market that that at at the the same same time time meets meets a a high high level level of of protection protection of of public public interests interests such such as as health health and and safety safety and and the the protection protection of of fundamental fundamental rights rights as as recognised recognised and and protected protected by by union union law.
a union legal union legal framework legal framework laying framework laying down laying down harmonised down harmonised rules harmonised rules on rules on artificial on artificial intelligence artificial intelligence is intelligence is therefore is therefore needed therefore needed to needed to foster to foster the foster the development the development use development use and use and uptake and uptake of uptake of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence in intelligence in the in the internal the internal market internal market that market that at that at the at the same the same time same time meets time meets a meets a high a high level high level of level of protection of protection of protection of public of public interests public interests such interests such as such as health as health and health and safety and safety and safety and the and the protection the protection of protection of fundamental of fundamental rights fundamental rights as rights as recognised as recognised and recognised and protected and protected by protected by union by union law.
a union legal framework union legal framework laying legal framework laying down framework laying down harmonised laying down harmonised rules down harmonised rules on harmonised rules on artificial rules on artificial intelligence on artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence is therefore intelligence is therefore needed is therefore needed to therefore needed to foster needed to foster the to foster the development foster the development use the development use and development use and uptake use and uptake of and uptake of artificial uptake of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence in artificial intelligence in the intelligence in the internal in the internal market the internal market that internal market that at market that at the that at the same at the same time the same time meets same time meets a time meets a high meets a high level a high level of high level of protection level of protection of of protection of public protection of public interests of public interests such public interests such as interests such as health such as health and as health and safety health and safety and and safety and the safety and the protection and the protection of the protection of fundamental protection of fundamental rights of fundamental rights as fundamental rights as recognised rights as recognised and as recognised and protected recognised and protected by and protected by union protected by union law.
to achieve achieve that that objective objective rules rules regulating regulating the the placing placing on on the the market market and and putting putting into into service service of of certain certain ai ai systems systems should should be be laid laid down down thus thus ensuring ensuring the the smooth smooth functioning functioning of of the the internal internal market market and and allowing allowing those those systems systems to to benefit benefit from from the the principle principle of of free free movement movement of of goods goods and and services.
to achieve that achieve that objective that objective rules objective rules regulating rules regulating the regulating the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market and market and putting and putting into putting into service into service of service of certain of certain ai certain ai systems ai systems should systems should be should be laid be laid down laid down thus down thus ensuring thus ensuring the ensuring the smooth the smooth functioning smooth functioning of functioning of the of the internal the internal market internal market and market and allowing and allowing those allowing those systems those systems to systems to benefit to benefit from benefit from the from the principle the principle of principle of free of free movement free movement of movement of goods of goods and goods and services.
to achieve that objective achieve that objective rules that objective rules regulating objective rules regulating the rules regulating the placing regulating the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market and the market and putting market and putting into and putting into service putting into service of into service of certain service of certain ai of certain ai systems certain ai systems should ai systems should be systems should be laid should be laid down be laid down thus laid down thus ensuring down thus ensuring the thus ensuring the smooth ensuring the smooth functioning the smooth functioning of smooth functioning of the functioning of the internal of the internal market the internal market and internal market and allowing market and allowing those and allowing those systems allowing those systems to those systems to benefit systems to benefit from to benefit from the benefit from the principle from the principle of the principle of free principle of free movement of free movement of free movement of goods movement of goods and of goods and services.
by laying laying down down those those rules rules and and building building on on the the work work of of the the high-level high-level expert expert group group on on artificial artificial intelligence intelligence as as reflecetd reflecetd in in the the guidelines guidelines for for trustworthy trustworthy artificial artificial intelligence intelligence in in the the eu eu this this regulation regulation supports supports the the objective objective of of the the union union of of being being a a global global leader leader in in the the development development of of secure secure trustworthy trustworthy and and ethical ethical artificial artificial intelligence intelligence as as stated stated by by the the european european council council and and it it ensures ensures the the protection protection of of ethical ethical principles principles as as specifically specifically requested requested by by the the european european parliament.
by laying down laying down those down those rules those rules and rules and building and building on building on the on the work the work of work of the of the high-level the high-level expert high-level expert group expert group on group on artificial on artificial intelligence artificial intelligence as intelligence as reflecetd as reflecetd in reflecetd in the in the guidelines the guidelines for guidelines for trustworthy for trustworthy artificial trustworthy artificial intelligence artificial intelligence in intelligence in the in the eu the eu this eu this regulation this regulation supports regulation supports the supports the objective the objective of objective of the of the union the union of union of being of being a being a global a global leader global leader in leader in the in the development the development of development of secure of secure trustworthy secure trustworthy and trustworthy and ethical and ethical artificial ethical artificial intelligence artificial intelligence as intelligence as stated as stated by stated by the by the european the european council european council and council and it and it ensures it ensures the ensures the protection the protection of protection of ethical of ethical principles ethical principles as principles as specifically as specifically requested specifically requested by requested by the by the european the european parliament.
by laying down those laying down those rules down those rules and those rules and building rules and building on and building on the building on the work on the work of the work of the work of the high-level of the high-level expert the high-level expert group high-level expert group on expert group on artificial group on artificial intelligence on artificial intelligence as artificial intelligence as reflecetd intelligence as reflecetd in as reflecetd in the reflecetd in the guidelines in the guidelines for the guidelines for trustworthy guidelines for trustworthy artificial for trustworthy artificial intelligence trustworthy artificial intelligence in artificial intelligence in the intelligence in the eu in the eu this the eu this regulation eu this regulation supports this regulation supports the regulation supports the objective supports the objective of the objective of the objective of the union of the union of the union of being union of being a of being a global being a global leader a global leader in global leader in the leader in the development in the development of the development of secure development of secure trustworthy of secure trustworthy and secure trustworthy and ethical trustworthy and ethical artificial and ethical artificial intelligence ethical artificial intelligence as artificial intelligence as stated intelligence as stated by as stated by the stated by the european by the european council the european council and european council and it council and it ensures and it ensures the it ensures the protection ensures the protection of the protection of ethical protection of ethical principles of ethical principles as ethical principles as specifically principles as specifically requested as specifically requested by specifically requested by the requested by the european by the european parliament.
european council council special special meeting meeting of of the the european european council council and and october october – – conclusions conclusions euco euco p. p. .
european council special council special meeting special meeting of meeting of the of the european the european council european council and council and october and october – october – conclusions – conclusions euco conclusions euco p. euco p. .
european council special meeting council special meeting of special meeting of the meeting of the european of the european council the european council and european council and october council and october – and october – conclusions october – conclusions euco – conclusions euco p. conclusions euco p. .
european parliament parliament resolution resolution of of october october with with recommendations recommendations to to the the commission commission on on a a framework framework of of ethical ethical aspects aspects of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence robotics robotics and and related related technologies technologies inl.
european parliament resolution parliament resolution of resolution of october of october with october with recommendations with recommendations to recommendations to the to the commission the commission on commission on a on a framework a framework of framework of ethical of ethical aspects ethical aspects of aspects of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence robotics intelligence robotics and robotics and related and related technologies related technologies inl.
european parliament resolution of parliament resolution of october resolution of october with of october with recommendations october with recommendations to with recommendations to the recommendations to the commission to the commission on the commission on a commission on a framework on a framework of a framework of ethical framework of ethical aspects of ethical aspects of ethical aspects of artificial aspects of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence robotics artificial intelligence robotics and intelligence robotics and related robotics and related technologies and related technologies inl.
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a the the harmonised harmonised rules rules on on the the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service and and use use of of ai ai systems systems laid laid down down in in this this regulation regulation should should apply apply across across sectors sectors and and in in line line with with its its new new legislative legislative framework framework approach approach should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to existing existing union union law law notably notably on on data data protection protection consumer consumer protection protection fundamental fundamental rights rights employment employment and and product product safety safety to to which which this this regulation regulation is is complementary.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a the a the harmonised the harmonised rules harmonised rules on rules on the on the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service and service and use and use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems laid systems laid down laid down in down in this in this regulation this regulation should regulation should apply should apply across apply across sectors across sectors and sectors and in and in line in line with line with its with its new its new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework approach framework approach should approach should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to existing to existing union existing union law union law notably law notably on notably on data on data protection data protection consumer protection consumer protection consumer protection fundamental protection fundamental rights fundamental rights employment rights employment and employment and product and product safety product safety to safety to which to which this which this regulation this regulation is regulation is complementary.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a the en a the harmonised a the harmonised rules the harmonised rules on harmonised rules on the rules on the placing on the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service and into service and use service and use of and use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems laid ai systems laid down systems laid down in laid down in this down in this regulation in this regulation should this regulation should apply regulation should apply across should apply across sectors apply across sectors and across sectors and in sectors and in line and in line with in line with its line with its new with its new legislative its new legislative framework new legislative framework approach legislative framework approach should framework approach should be approach should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to existing prejudice to existing union to existing union law existing union law notably union law notably on law notably on data notably on data protection on data protection consumer data protection consumer protection protection consumer protection fundamental consumer protection fundamental rights protection fundamental rights employment fundamental rights employment and rights employment and product employment and product safety and product safety to product safety to which safety to which this to which this regulation which this regulation is this regulation is complementary.
as a a consequence consequence all all rights rights and and remedies remedies afforded afforded by by such such union union law law to to consumers consumers and and other other persons persons who who may may be be negatively negatively impacted impacted by by ai ai systems systems including including as as regards regards the the compensation compensation of of possible possible damages damages pursuant pursuant to to council council directive directive eec eec of of july july on on the the approximation approximation of of the the laws laws regulations regulations and and administrative administrative provisions provisions of of the the member member states states concerning concerning liability liability for for defective defective products products remain remain unaffected unaffected and and fully fully applicable.
as a consequence a consequence all consequence all rights all rights and rights and remedies and remedies afforded remedies afforded by afforded by such by such union such union law union law to law to consumers to consumers and consumers and other and other persons other persons who persons who may who may be may be negatively be negatively impacted negatively impacted by impacted by ai by ai systems ai systems including systems including as including as regards as regards the regards the compensation the compensation of compensation of possible of possible damages possible damages pursuant damages pursuant to pursuant to council to council directive council directive eec directive eec of eec of july of july on july on the on the approximation the approximation of approximation of the of the laws the laws regulations laws regulations and regulations and administrative and administrative provisions administrative provisions of provisions of the of the member the member states member states concerning states concerning liability concerning liability for liability for defective for defective products defective products remain products remain unaffected remain unaffected and unaffected and fully and fully applicable.
as a consequence all a consequence all rights consequence all rights and all rights and remedies rights and remedies afforded and remedies afforded by remedies afforded by such afforded by such union by such union law such union law to union law to consumers law to consumers and to consumers and other consumers and other persons and other persons who other persons who may persons who may be who may be negatively may be negatively impacted be negatively impacted by negatively impacted by ai impacted by ai systems by ai systems including ai systems including as systems including as regards including as regards the as regards the compensation regards the compensation of the compensation of possible compensation of possible damages of possible damages pursuant possible damages pursuant to damages pursuant to council pursuant to council directive to council directive eec council directive eec of directive eec of july eec of july on of july on the july on the approximation on the approximation of the approximation of the approximation of the laws of the laws regulations the laws regulations and laws regulations and administrative regulations and administrative provisions and administrative provisions of administrative provisions of the provisions of the member of the member states the member states concerning member states concerning liability states concerning liability for concerning liability for defective liability for defective products for defective products remain defective products remain unaffected products remain unaffected and remain unaffected and fully unaffected and fully applicable.
on top top of of that that this this regulation regulation aims aims to to strengthen strengthen the the effectiveness effectiveness of of such such existing existing rights rights and and remedies remedies by by establishing establishing specific specific requirements requirements and and obligations obligations including including in in respect respect of of transparency transparency technical technical documentation documentation and and record-keeping record-keeping of of ai ai systems.
on top of top of that of that this that this regulation this regulation aims regulation aims to aims to strengthen to strengthen the strengthen the effectiveness the effectiveness of effectiveness of such of such existing such existing rights existing rights and rights and remedies and remedies by remedies by establishing by establishing specific establishing specific requirements specific requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations including obligations including in including in respect in respect of respect of transparency of transparency technical transparency technical documentation technical documentation and documentation and record-keeping and record-keeping of record-keeping of ai of ai systems.
on top of that top of that this of that this regulation that this regulation aims this regulation aims to regulation aims to strengthen aims to strengthen the to strengthen the effectiveness strengthen the effectiveness of the effectiveness of such effectiveness of such existing of such existing rights such existing rights and existing rights and remedies rights and remedies by and remedies by establishing remedies by establishing specific by establishing specific requirements establishing specific requirements and specific requirements and obligations requirements and obligations including and obligations including in obligations including in respect including in respect of in respect of transparency respect of transparency technical of transparency technical documentation transparency technical documentation and technical documentation and record-keeping documentation and record-keeping of and record-keeping of ai record-keeping of ai systems.
furthermore the the obligations obligations placed placed on on various various operators operators involved involved in in the the ai ai value value chain chain under under this this regulation regulation should should apply apply without without prejudice prejudice to to national national laws laws in in compliance compliance with with union union law law having having the the effect effect of of limiting limiting the the use use of of certain certain ai ai systems systems where where such such laws laws fall fall outside outside the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation or or pursue pursue other other legitimate legitimate public public interest interest objectives objectives than than those those pursued pursued by by this this regulation.
furthermore the obligations the obligations placed obligations placed on placed on various on various operators various operators involved operators involved in involved in the in the ai the ai value ai value chain value chain under chain under this under this regulation this regulation should regulation should apply should apply without apply without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to national to national laws national laws in laws in compliance in compliance with compliance with union with union law union law having law having the having the effect the effect of effect of limiting of limiting the limiting the use the use of use of certain of certain ai certain ai systems ai systems where systems where such where such laws such laws fall laws fall outside fall outside the outside the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation or regulation or pursue or pursue other pursue other legitimate other legitimate public legitimate public interest public interest objectives interest objectives than objectives than those than those pursued those pursued by pursued by this by this regulation.
furthermore the obligations placed the obligations placed on obligations placed on various placed on various operators on various operators involved various operators involved in operators involved in the involved in the ai in the ai value the ai value chain ai value chain under value chain under this chain under this regulation under this regulation should this regulation should apply regulation should apply without should apply without prejudice apply without prejudice to without prejudice to national prejudice to national laws to national laws in national laws in compliance laws in compliance with in compliance with union compliance with union law with union law having union law having the law having the effect having the effect of the effect of limiting effect of limiting the of limiting the use limiting the use of the use of certain use of certain ai of certain ai systems certain ai systems where ai systems where such systems where such laws where such laws fall such laws fall outside laws fall outside the fall outside the scope outside the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation or this regulation or pursue regulation or pursue other or pursue other legitimate pursue other legitimate public other legitimate public interest legitimate public interest objectives public interest objectives than interest objectives than those objectives than those pursued than those pursued by those pursued by this pursued by this regulation.
for example example national national labour labour law law and and the the laws laws on on the the protection protection of of minors minors i.e.
for example national example national labour national labour law labour law and law and the and the laws the laws on laws on the on the protection the protection of protection of minors of minors i.e.
for example national labour example national labour law national labour law and labour law and the law and the laws and the laws on the laws on the laws on the protection on the protection of the protection of minors protection of minors i.e.
persons below below the the age age of of taking taking into into account account the the united united nations nations general general comment comment no no on on children’s children’s rights rights insofar insofar as as they they are are not not specific specific to to ai ai systems systems and and pursue pursue other other legimitate legimitate public public interest interest objectives objectives should should not not be be affected affected by by this this regulation.
persons below the below the age the age of age of taking of taking into taking into account into account the account the united the united nations united nations general nations general comment general comment no comment no on no on children’s on children’s rights children’s rights insofar rights insofar as insofar as they as they are they are not are not specific not specific to specific to ai to ai systems ai systems and systems and pursue and pursue other pursue other legimitate other legimitate public legimitate public interest public interest objectives interest objectives should objectives should not should not be not be affected be affected by affected by this by this regulation.
persons below the age below the age of the age of taking age of taking into of taking into account taking into account the into account the united account the united nations the united nations general united nations general comment nations general comment no general comment no on comment no on children’s no on children’s rights on children’s rights insofar children’s rights insofar as rights insofar as they insofar as they are as they are not they are not specific are not specific to not specific to ai specific to ai systems to ai systems and ai systems and pursue systems and pursue other and pursue other legimitate pursue other legimitate public other legimitate public interest legimitate public interest objectives public interest objectives should interest objectives should not objectives should not be should not be affected not be affected by be affected by this affected by this regulation.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the notion notion of of ai ai system system should should be be clearly clearly defined defined to to ensure ensure legal legal certainty certainty while while providing providing the the flexibility flexibility to to accommodate accommodate future future technological technological developments.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the notion the notion of notion of ai of ai system ai system should system should be should be clearly be clearly defined clearly defined to defined to ensure to ensure legal ensure legal certainty legal certainty while certainty while providing while providing the providing the flexibility the flexibility to flexibility to accommodate to accommodate future accommodate future technological future technological developments.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the notion en the notion of the notion of ai notion of ai system of ai system should ai system should be system should be clearly should be clearly defined be clearly defined to clearly defined to ensure defined to ensure legal to ensure legal certainty ensure legal certainty while legal certainty while providing certainty while providing the while providing the flexibility providing the flexibility to the flexibility to accommodate flexibility to accommodate future to accommodate future technological accommodate future technological developments.
the definition definition should should be be based based on on key key functional functional characteristics characteristics of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence such such as as its its learning learning reasoning reasoning or or modelling modelling capabilities capabilities distinguishing distinguishing it it from from simpler simpler software software systems systems and and programming programming approaches.
the definition should definition should be should be based be based on based on key on key functional key functional characteristics functional characteristics of characteristics of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence such intelligence such as such as its as its learning its learning reasoning learning reasoning or reasoning or modelling or modelling capabilities modelling capabilities distinguishing capabilities distinguishing it distinguishing it from it from simpler from simpler software simpler software systems software systems and systems and programming and programming approaches.
the definition should be definition should be based should be based on be based on key based on key functional on key functional characteristics key functional characteristics of functional characteristics of artificial characteristics of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence such artificial intelligence such as intelligence such as its such as its learning as its learning reasoning its learning reasoning or learning reasoning or modelling reasoning or modelling capabilities or modelling capabilities distinguishing modelling capabilities distinguishing it capabilities distinguishing it from distinguishing it from simpler it from simpler software from simpler software systems simpler software systems and software systems and programming systems and programming approaches.
in particular particular for for the the purposes purposes of of this this regulation regulation ai ai systems systems should should have have the the ability ability on on the the basis basis of of machine machine andor andor human-based human-based data data and and inputs inputs to to infer infer the the way way to to achieve achieve a a set set of of final final objectives objectives given given to to them them by by humans humans using using machine machine learning learning andor andor logic- logic- and and knowledge knowledge based based approaches approaches and and to to produce produce outputs outputs such such as as content content for for generative generative ai ai systems systems e.g.
in particular for particular for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of this of this regulation this regulation ai regulation ai systems ai systems should systems should have should have the have the ability the ability on ability on the on the basis the basis of basis of machine of machine andor machine andor human-based andor human-based data human-based data and data and inputs and inputs to inputs to infer to infer the infer the way the way to way to achieve to achieve a achieve a set a set of set of final of final objectives final objectives given objectives given to given to them to them by them by humans by humans using humans using machine using machine learning machine learning andor learning andor logic- andor logic- and logic- and knowledge and knowledge based knowledge based approaches based approaches and approaches and to and to produce to produce outputs produce outputs such outputs such as such as content as content for content for generative for generative ai generative ai systems ai systems e.g.
in particular for the particular for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of this purposes of this regulation of this regulation ai this regulation ai systems regulation ai systems should ai systems should have systems should have the should have the ability have the ability on the ability on the ability on the basis on the basis of the basis of machine basis of machine andor of machine andor human-based machine andor human-based data andor human-based data and human-based data and inputs data and inputs to and inputs to infer inputs to infer the to infer the way infer the way to the way to achieve way to achieve a to achieve a set achieve a set of a set of final set of final objectives of final objectives given final objectives given to objectives given to them given to them by to them by humans them by humans using by humans using machine humans using machine learning using machine learning andor machine learning andor logic- learning andor logic- and andor logic- and knowledge logic- and knowledge based and knowledge based approaches knowledge based approaches and based approaches and to approaches and to produce and to produce outputs to produce outputs such produce outputs such as outputs such as content such as content for as content for generative content for generative ai for generative ai systems generative ai systems e.g.
text video video or or images images predictions predictions recommendations recommendations or or decisions decisions influencing influencing the the environment environment with with which which the the system system interacts interacts be be it it in in a a physical physical or or digital digital dimension.
text video or video or images or images predictions images predictions recommendations predictions recommendations or recommendations or decisions or decisions influencing decisions influencing the influencing the environment the environment with environment with which with which the which the system the system interacts system interacts be interacts be it be it in it in a in a physical a physical or physical or digital or digital dimension.
text video or images video or images predictions or images predictions recommendations images predictions recommendations or predictions recommendations or decisions recommendations or decisions influencing or decisions influencing the decisions influencing the environment influencing the environment with the environment with which environment with which the with which the system which the system interacts the system interacts be system interacts be it interacts be it in be it in a it in a physical in a physical or a physical or digital physical or digital dimension.
a system system that that uses uses rules rules defined defined solely solely by by natural natural persons persons to to automatically automatically execute execute operations operations should should not not be be considered considered an an ai ai system.
a system that system that uses that uses rules uses rules defined rules defined solely defined solely by solely by natural by natural persons natural persons to persons to automatically to automatically execute automatically execute operations execute operations should operations should not should not be not be considered be considered an considered an ai an ai system.
a system that uses system that uses rules that uses rules defined uses rules defined solely rules defined solely by defined solely by natural solely by natural persons by natural persons to natural persons to automatically persons to automatically execute to automatically execute operations automatically execute operations should execute operations should not operations should not be should not be considered not be considered an be considered an ai considered an ai system.
ai systems systems can can be be designed designed to to operate operate with with varying varying levels levels of of autonomy autonomy and and be be used used on on a a stand-alone stand-alone basis basis or or as as a a component component of of a a product product irrespective irrespective of of whether whether the the system system is is physically physically integrated integrated into into the the product product embedded embedded or or serve serve the the functionality functionality of of the the product product without without being being integrated integrated therein therein non-embedded.
ai systems can systems can be can be designed be designed to designed to operate to operate with operate with varying with varying levels varying levels of levels of autonomy of autonomy and autonomy and be and be used be used on used on a on a stand-alone a stand-alone basis stand-alone basis or basis or as or as a as a component a component of component of a of a product a product irrespective product irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether the whether the system the system is system is physically is physically integrated physically integrated into integrated into the into the product the product embedded product embedded or embedded or serve or serve the serve the functionality the functionality of functionality of the of the product the product without product without being without being integrated being integrated therein integrated therein non-embedded.
ai systems can be systems can be designed can be designed to be designed to operate designed to operate with to operate with varying operate with varying levels with varying levels of varying levels of autonomy levels of autonomy and of autonomy and be autonomy and be used and be used on be used on a used on a stand-alone on a stand-alone basis a stand-alone basis or stand-alone basis or as basis or as a or as a component as a component of a component of a component of a product of a product irrespective a product irrespective of product irrespective of whether irrespective of whether the of whether the system whether the system is the system is physically system is physically integrated is physically integrated into physically integrated into the integrated into the product into the product embedded the product embedded or product embedded or serve embedded or serve the or serve the functionality serve the functionality of the functionality of the functionality of the product of the product without the product without being product without being integrated without being integrated therein being integrated therein non-embedded.
the concept concept of of the the autonomy autonomy of of an an ai ai system system relates relates to to the the degree degree to to which which such such a a system system functions functions without without human human involvement.
the concept of concept of the of the autonomy the autonomy of autonomy of an of an ai an ai system ai system relates system relates to relates to the to the degree the degree to degree to which to which such which such a such a system a system functions system functions without functions without human without human involvement.
the concept of the concept of the autonomy of the autonomy of the autonomy of an autonomy of an ai of an ai system an ai system relates ai system relates to system relates to the relates to the degree to the degree to the degree to which degree to which such to which such a which such a system such a system functions a system functions without system functions without human functions without human involvement.
a machine machine learning learning approaches approaches focus focus on on the the development development of of systems systems capable capable of of learning learning and and inferring inferring from from data data to to solve solve an an application application problem problem without without being being explicitly explicitly programmed programmed with with a a set set of of step-by-step step-by-step instructions instructions from from input input to to output.
a machine learning machine learning approaches learning approaches focus approaches focus on focus on the on the development the development of development of systems of systems capable systems capable of capable of learning of learning and learning and inferring and inferring from inferring from data from data to data to solve to solve an solve an application an application problem application problem without problem without being without being explicitly being explicitly programmed explicitly programmed with programmed with a with a set a set of set of step-by-step of step-by-step instructions step-by-step instructions from instructions from input from input to input to output.
a machine learning approaches machine learning approaches focus learning approaches focus on approaches focus on the focus on the development on the development of the development of systems development of systems capable of systems capable of systems capable of learning capable of learning and of learning and inferring learning and inferring from and inferring from data inferring from data to from data to solve data to solve an to solve an application solve an application problem an application problem without application problem without being problem without being explicitly without being explicitly programmed being explicitly programmed with explicitly programmed with a programmed with a set with a set of a set of step-by-step set of step-by-step instructions of step-by-step instructions from step-by-step instructions from input instructions from input to from input to output.
learning refers refers to to the the computational computational process process of of optimizing optimizing from from data data the the parameters parameters of of the the model model which which is is a a mathematical mathematical construct construct generating generating an an output output based based on on input input data.
learning refers to refers to the to the computational the computational process computational process of process of optimizing of optimizing from optimizing from data from data the data the parameters the parameters of parameters of the of the model the model which model which is which is a is a mathematical a mathematical construct mathematical construct generating construct generating an generating an output an output based output based on based on input on input data.
learning refers to the refers to the computational to the computational process the computational process of computational process of optimizing process of optimizing from of optimizing from data optimizing from data the from data the parameters data the parameters of the parameters of the parameters of the model of the model which the model which is model which is a which is a mathematical is a mathematical construct a mathematical construct generating mathematical construct generating an construct generating an output generating an output based an output based on output based on input based on input data.
the range range of of problems problems addressed addressed by by machine machine learning learning typically typically involves involves tasks tasks for for which which other other approaches approaches fail fail either either because because there there is is no no suitable suitable formalisation formalisation of of the the problem problem or or because because the the resolution resolution of of the the problem problem is is intractable intractable with with non-learning non-learning approaches.
the range of range of problems of problems addressed problems addressed by addressed by machine by machine learning machine learning typically learning typically involves typically involves tasks involves tasks for tasks for which for which other which other approaches other approaches fail approaches fail either fail either because either because there because there is there is no is no suitable no suitable formalisation suitable formalisation of formalisation of the of the problem the problem or problem or because or because the because the resolution the resolution of resolution of the of the problem the problem is problem is intractable is intractable with intractable with non-learning with non-learning approaches.
the range of problems range of problems addressed of problems addressed by problems addressed by machine addressed by machine learning by machine learning typically machine learning typically involves learning typically involves tasks typically involves tasks for involves tasks for which tasks for which other for which other approaches which other approaches fail other approaches fail either approaches fail either because fail either because there either because there is because there is no there is no suitable is no suitable formalisation no suitable formalisation of suitable formalisation of the formalisation of the problem of the problem or the problem or because problem or because the or because the resolution because the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the problem of the problem is the problem is intractable problem is intractable with is intractable with non-learning intractable with non-learning approaches.
machine learning learning approaches approaches include include for for instance instance supervised supervised unsupervised unsupervised and and reinforcement reinforcement learning learning using using a a variety variety of of methods methods including including deep deep learning learning with with neural neural networks networks statistical statistical techniques techniques for for learning learning and and inference inference including including for for instance instance logistic logistic regression regression bayesian bayesian estimation estimation and and search search and and optimisation optimisation methods.
machine learning approaches learning approaches include approaches include for include for instance for instance supervised instance supervised unsupervised supervised unsupervised and unsupervised and reinforcement and reinforcement learning reinforcement learning using learning using a using a variety a variety of variety of methods of methods including methods including deep including deep learning deep learning with learning with neural with neural networks neural networks statistical networks statistical techniques statistical techniques for techniques for learning for learning and learning and inference and inference including inference including for including for instance for instance logistic instance logistic regression logistic regression bayesian regression bayesian estimation bayesian estimation and estimation and search and search and search and optimisation and optimisation methods.
machine learning approaches include learning approaches include for approaches include for instance include for instance supervised for instance supervised unsupervised instance supervised unsupervised and supervised unsupervised and reinforcement unsupervised and reinforcement learning and reinforcement learning using reinforcement learning using a learning using a variety using a variety of a variety of methods variety of methods including of methods including deep methods including deep learning including deep learning with deep learning with neural learning with neural networks with neural networks statistical neural networks statistical techniques networks statistical techniques for statistical techniques for learning techniques for learning and for learning and inference learning and inference including and inference including for inference including for instance including for instance logistic for instance logistic regression instance logistic regression bayesian logistic regression bayesian estimation regression bayesian estimation and bayesian estimation and search estimation and search and and search and optimisation search and optimisation methods.
tree..b rbek rbek en en b b logic- logic- and and knowledge knowledge based based approaches approaches focus focus on on the the development development of of systems systems with with logical logical reasoning reasoning capabilities capabilities on on knowledge knowledge to to solve solve an an application application problem.
tree..b rbek en rbek en b en b logic- b logic- and logic- and knowledge and knowledge based knowledge based approaches based approaches focus approaches focus on focus on the on the development the development of development of systems of systems with systems with logical with logical reasoning logical reasoning capabilities reasoning capabilities on capabilities on knowledge on knowledge to knowledge to solve to solve an solve an application an application problem.
tree..b rbek en b rbek en b logic- en b logic- and b logic- and knowledge logic- and knowledge based and knowledge based approaches knowledge based approaches focus based approaches focus on approaches focus on the focus on the development on the development of the development of systems development of systems with of systems with logical systems with logical reasoning with logical reasoning capabilities logical reasoning capabilities on reasoning capabilities on knowledge capabilities on knowledge to on knowledge to solve knowledge to solve an to solve an application solve an application problem.
such systems systems typically typically involve involve a a knowledge knowledge base base and and an an inference inference engine engine that that generates generates outputs outputs by by reasoning reasoning on on the the knowledge knowledge base.
such systems typically systems typically involve typically involve a involve a knowledge a knowledge base knowledge base and base and an and an inference an inference engine inference engine that engine that generates that generates outputs generates outputs by outputs by reasoning by reasoning on reasoning on the on the knowledge the knowledge base.
such systems typically involve systems typically involve a typically involve a knowledge involve a knowledge base a knowledge base and knowledge base and an base and an inference and an inference engine an inference engine that inference engine that generates engine that generates outputs that generates outputs by generates outputs by reasoning outputs by reasoning on by reasoning on the reasoning on the knowledge on the knowledge base.
the knowledge knowledge base base which which is is usually usually encoded encoded by by human human experts experts represents represents entities entities and and logical logical relationships relationships relevant relevant for for the the application application problem problem through through formalisms formalisms based based on on rules rules ontologies ontologies or or knowledge knowledge graphs.
the knowledge base knowledge base which base which is which is usually is usually encoded usually encoded by encoded by human by human experts human experts represents experts represents entities represents entities and entities and logical and logical relationships logical relationships relevant relationships relevant for relevant for the for the application the application problem application problem through problem through formalisms through formalisms based formalisms based on based on rules on rules ontologies rules ontologies or ontologies or knowledge or knowledge graphs.
the knowledge base which knowledge base which is base which is usually which is usually encoded is usually encoded by usually encoded by human encoded by human experts by human experts represents human experts represents entities experts represents entities and represents entities and logical entities and logical relationships and logical relationships relevant logical relationships relevant for relationships relevant for the relevant for the application for the application problem the application problem through application problem through formalisms problem through formalisms based through formalisms based on formalisms based on rules based on rules ontologies on rules ontologies or rules ontologies or knowledge ontologies or knowledge graphs.
the inference inference engine engine acts acts on on the the knowledge knowledge base base and and extracts extracts new new information information through through operations operations such such as as sorting sorting searching searching matching matching or or chaining.
the inference engine inference engine acts engine acts on acts on the on the knowledge the knowledge base knowledge base and base and extracts and extracts new extracts new information new information through information through operations through operations such operations such as such as sorting as sorting searching sorting searching matching searching matching or matching or chaining.
the inference engine acts inference engine acts on engine acts on the acts on the knowledge on the knowledge base the knowledge base and knowledge base and extracts base and extracts new and extracts new information extracts new information through new information through operations information through operations such through operations such as operations such as sorting such as sorting searching as sorting searching matching sorting searching matching or searching matching or chaining.
logic- and and knowledge knowledge based based approaches approaches include include for for instance instance knowledge knowledge representation representation inductive inductive logic logic programming programming knowledge knowledge bases bases inference inference and and deductive deductive engines engines symbolic symbolic reasoning reasoning expert expert systems systems and and search search and and optimisation optimisation methods.
logic- and knowledge and knowledge based knowledge based approaches based approaches include approaches include for include for instance for instance knowledge instance knowledge representation knowledge representation inductive representation inductive logic inductive logic programming logic programming knowledge programming knowledge bases knowledge bases inference bases inference and inference and deductive and deductive engines deductive engines symbolic engines symbolic reasoning symbolic reasoning expert reasoning expert systems expert systems and systems and search and search and search and optimisation and optimisation methods.
logic- and knowledge based and knowledge based approaches knowledge based approaches include based approaches include for approaches include for instance include for instance knowledge for instance knowledge representation instance knowledge representation inductive knowledge representation inductive logic representation inductive logic programming inductive logic programming knowledge logic programming knowledge bases programming knowledge bases inference knowledge bases inference and bases inference and deductive inference and deductive engines and deductive engines symbolic deductive engines symbolic reasoning engines symbolic reasoning expert symbolic reasoning expert systems reasoning expert systems and expert systems and search systems and search and and search and optimisation search and optimisation methods.
c in in order order to to ensure ensure uniform uniform conditions conditions for for the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation as as regards regards machine machine learning learning approaches approaches and and logic- logic- and and knowledged knowledged based based approaches approaches and and to to take take account account of of market market and and technological technological developments developments implementing implementing powers powers should should be be conferred conferred on on the the commission.
c in order in order to order to ensure to ensure uniform ensure uniform conditions uniform conditions for conditions for the for the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation as regulation as regards as regards machine regards machine learning machine learning approaches learning approaches and approaches and logic- and logic- and logic- and knowledged and knowledged based knowledged based approaches based approaches and approaches and to and to take to take account take account of account of market of market and market and technological and technological developments technological developments implementing developments implementing powers implementing powers should powers should be should be conferred be conferred on conferred on the on the commission.
c in order to in order to ensure order to ensure uniform to ensure uniform conditions ensure uniform conditions for uniform conditions for the conditions for the implementation for the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation as this regulation as regards regulation as regards machine as regards machine learning regards machine learning approaches machine learning approaches and learning approaches and logic- approaches and logic- and and logic- and knowledged logic- and knowledged based and knowledged based approaches knowledged based approaches and based approaches and to approaches and to take and to take account to take account of take account of market account of market and of market and technological market and technological developments and technological developments implementing technological developments implementing powers developments implementing powers should implementing powers should be powers should be conferred should be conferred on be conferred on the conferred on the commission.
d the the notion notion of of ‘user’ ‘user’ referred referred to to in in this this regulation regulation should should be be interpreted interpreted as as any any natural natural or or legal legal person person including including a a public public authority authority agency agency or or other other body body using using an an ai ai system system under under whose whose authority authority the the system system is is used.
d the notion the notion of notion of ‘user’ of ‘user’ referred ‘user’ referred to referred to in to in this in this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be interpreted be interpreted as interpreted as any as any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person including person including a including a public a public authority public authority agency authority agency or agency or other or other body other body using body using an using an ai an ai system ai system under system under whose under whose authority whose authority the authority the system the system is system is used.
d the notion of the notion of ‘user’ notion of ‘user’ referred of ‘user’ referred to ‘user’ referred to in referred to in this to in this regulation in this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be interpreted should be interpreted as be interpreted as any interpreted as any natural as any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person including legal person including a person including a public including a public authority a public authority agency public authority agency or authority agency or other agency or other body or other body using other body using an body using an ai using an ai system an ai system under ai system under whose system under whose authority under whose authority the whose authority the system authority the system is the system is used.
depending on on the the type type of of ai ai system system the the use use of of the the system system may may affect affect persons persons other other than than the the user.
depending on the on the type the type of type of ai of ai system ai system the system the use the use of use of the of the system the system may system may affect may affect persons affect persons other persons other than other than the than the user.
depending on the type on the type of the type of ai type of ai system of ai system the ai system the use system the use of the use of the use of the system of the system may the system may affect system may affect persons may affect persons other affect persons other than persons other than the other than the user.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the notion notion of of biometric biometric data data used used in in this this regulation regulation should should be be interpreted interpreted consistently consistently with with the the notion notion of of biometric biometric data data as as defined defined in in article article of of regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council article article of of regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and article article of of directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the notion the notion of notion of biometric of biometric data biometric data used data used in used in this in this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be interpreted be interpreted consistently interpreted consistently with consistently with the with the notion the notion of notion of biometric of biometric data biometric data as data as defined as defined in defined in article in article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council article council article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and article and article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the notion en the notion of the notion of biometric notion of biometric data of biometric data used biometric data used in data used in this used in this regulation in this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be interpreted should be interpreted consistently be interpreted consistently with interpreted consistently with the consistently with the notion with the notion of the notion of biometric notion of biometric data of biometric data as biometric data as defined data as defined in as defined in article defined in article of in article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council article the council article of council article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and article council and article of and article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council.
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of april april on on the the protection protection of of natural natural persons persons with with regard regard to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data and and on on the the free free movement movement of of such such data data and and repealing repealing directive directive ec ec general general data data protection protection regulation regulation oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of april of april on april on the on the protection the protection of protection of natural of natural persons natural persons with persons with regard with regard to regard to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data and data and on and on the on the free the free movement free movement of movement of such of such data such data and data and repealing and repealing directive repealing directive ec directive ec general ec general data general data protection data protection regulation protection regulation oj regulation oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of april council of april on of april on the april on the protection on the protection of the protection of natural protection of natural persons of natural persons with natural persons with regard persons with regard to with regard to the regard to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data and personal data and on data and on the and on the free on the free movement the free movement of free movement of such movement of such data of such data and such data and repealing data and repealing directive and repealing directive ec repealing directive ec general directive ec general data ec general data protection general data protection regulation data protection regulation oj protection regulation oj l regulation oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of october october on on the the protection protection of of natural natural persons persons with with regard regard to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data by by the the union union institutions institutions bodies bodies offices offices and and agencies agencies and and on on the the free free movement movement of of such such data data and and repealing repealing regulation regulation ec ec no no and and decision decision no no ec ec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of april april on on the the protection protection of of natural natural persons persons with with regard regard to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data by by competent competent authorities authorities for for the the purposes purposes of of the the prevention prevention investigation investigation detection detection or or prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences offences or or the the execution execution of of criminal criminal penalties penalties and and on on the the free free movement movement of of such such data data and and repealing repealing council council framework framework decision decision jha jha law law enforcement enforcement directive directive oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of october of october on october on the on the protection the protection of protection of natural of natural persons natural persons with persons with regard with regard to regard to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data by data by the by the union the union institutions union institutions bodies institutions bodies offices bodies offices and offices and agencies and agencies and agencies and on and on the on the free the free movement free movement of movement of such of such data such data and data and repealing and repealing regulation repealing regulation ec regulation ec no ec no and no and decision and decision no decision no ec no ec oj ec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. directive p. directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of april of april on april on the on the protection the protection of protection of natural of natural persons natural persons with persons with regard with regard to regard to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data by data by competent by competent authorities competent authorities for authorities for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of the of the prevention the prevention investigation prevention investigation detection investigation detection or detection or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences criminal offences or offences or the or the execution the execution of execution of criminal of criminal penalties criminal penalties and penalties and on and on the on the free the free movement free movement of movement of such of such data such data and data and repealing and repealing council repealing council framework council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha law jha law enforcement law enforcement directive enforcement directive oj directive oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of october council of october on of october on the october on the protection on the protection of the protection of natural protection of natural persons of natural persons with natural persons with regard persons with regard to with regard to the regard to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data by personal data by the data by the union by the union institutions the union institutions bodies union institutions bodies offices institutions bodies offices and bodies offices and agencies offices and agencies and and agencies and on agencies and on the and on the free on the free movement the free movement of free movement of such movement of such data of such data and such data and repealing data and repealing regulation and repealing regulation ec repealing regulation ec no regulation ec no and ec no and decision no and decision no and decision no ec decision no ec oj no ec oj l ec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. directive .. p. directive eu p. directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of april council of april on of april on the april on the protection on the protection of the protection of natural protection of natural persons of natural persons with natural persons with regard persons with regard to with regard to the regard to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data by personal data by competent data by competent authorities by competent authorities for competent authorities for the authorities for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the prevention of the prevention investigation the prevention investigation detection prevention investigation detection or investigation detection or prosecution detection or prosecution of or prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences of criminal offences or criminal offences or the offences or the execution or the execution of the execution of criminal execution of criminal penalties of criminal penalties and criminal penalties and on penalties and on the and on the free on the free movement the free movement of free movement of such movement of such data of such data and such data and repealing data and repealing council and repealing council framework repealing council framework decision council framework decision jha framework decision jha law decision jha law enforcement jha law enforcement directive law enforcement directive oj enforcement directive oj l directive oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the notion notion of of remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system system as as used used in in this this regulation regulation should should be be defined defined functionally functionally as as an an ai ai system system intended intended for for the the identification identification of of natural natural persons persons typically typically at at a a distance distance without without their their active active involvement involvement through through the the comparison comparison of of a a person’s person’s biometric biometric data data with with the the biometric biometric data data contained contained in in a a reference reference data data repository repository irrespectively irrespectively of of the the particular particular technology technology processes processes or or types types of of biometric biometric data data used.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the notion the notion of notion of remote of remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system identification system as system as used as used in used in this in this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be defined be defined functionally defined functionally as functionally as an as an ai an ai system ai system intended system intended for intended for the for the identification the identification of identification of natural of natural persons natural persons typically persons typically at typically at a at a distance a distance without distance without their without their active their active involvement active involvement through involvement through the through the comparison the comparison of comparison of a of a person’s a person’s biometric person’s biometric data biometric data with data with the with the biometric the biometric data biometric data contained data contained in contained in a in a reference a reference data reference data repository data repository irrespectively repository irrespectively of irrespectively of the of the particular the particular technology particular technology processes technology processes or processes or types or types of types of biometric of biometric data biometric data used.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the notion en the notion of the notion of remote notion of remote biometric of remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system biometric identification system as identification system as used system as used in as used in this used in this regulation in this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be defined should be defined functionally be defined functionally as defined functionally as an functionally as an ai as an ai system an ai system intended ai system intended for system intended for the intended for the identification for the identification of the identification of natural identification of natural persons of natural persons typically natural persons typically at persons typically at a typically at a distance at a distance without a distance without their distance without their active without their active involvement their active involvement through active involvement through the involvement through the comparison through the comparison of the comparison of a comparison of a person’s of a person’s biometric a person’s biometric data person’s biometric data with biometric data with the data with the biometric with the biometric data the biometric data contained biometric data contained in data contained in a contained in a reference in a reference data a reference data repository reference data repository irrespectively data repository irrespectively of repository irrespectively of the irrespectively of the particular of the particular technology the particular technology processes particular technology processes or technology processes or types processes or types of or types of biometric types of biometric data of biometric data used.
such remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems are are typically typically used used to to perceive perceive scan scan multiple multiple persons persons or or their their behaviour behaviour simultaneously simultaneously in in order order to to facilitate facilitate significantly significantly the the identification identification of of a a number number of of persons persons without without their their active active involvement.
such remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems are systems are typically are typically used typically used to used to perceive to perceive scan perceive scan multiple scan multiple persons multiple persons or persons or their or their behaviour their behaviour simultaneously behaviour simultaneously in simultaneously in order in order to order to facilitate to facilitate significantly facilitate significantly the significantly the identification the identification of identification of a of a number a number of number of persons of persons without persons without their without their active their active involvement.
such remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems are identification systems are typically systems are typically used are typically used to typically used to perceive used to perceive scan to perceive scan multiple perceive scan multiple persons scan multiple persons or multiple persons or their persons or their behaviour or their behaviour simultaneously their behaviour simultaneously in behaviour simultaneously in order simultaneously in order to in order to facilitate order to facilitate significantly to facilitate significantly the facilitate significantly the identification significantly the identification of the identification of a identification of a number of a number of a number of persons number of persons without of persons without their persons without their active without their active involvement.
such a a definition definition excludes excludes verificationauthentication verificationauthentication systems systems whose whose sole sole purpose purpose would would be be to to confirm confirm that that a a specific specific natural natural person person is is the the person person he he or or she she claims claims to to be be as as well well as as systems systems that that are are used used to to confirm confirm the the identity identity of of a a natural natural person person for for the the sole sole purpose purpose of of having having access access to to a a service service a a device device or or premises.
such a definition a definition excludes definition excludes verificationauthentication excludes verificationauthentication systems verificationauthentication systems whose systems whose sole whose sole purpose sole purpose would purpose would be would be to be to confirm to confirm that confirm that a that a specific a specific natural specific natural person natural person is person is the is the person the person he person he or he or she or she claims she claims to claims to be to be as be as well as well as well as systems as systems that systems that are that are used are used to used to confirm to confirm the confirm the identity the identity of identity of a of a natural a natural person natural person for person for the for the sole the sole purpose sole purpose of purpose of having of having access having access to access to a to a service a service a service a device a device or device or premises.
such a definition excludes a definition excludes verificationauthentication definition excludes verificationauthentication systems excludes verificationauthentication systems whose verificationauthentication systems whose sole systems whose sole purpose whose sole purpose would sole purpose would be purpose would be to would be to confirm be to confirm that to confirm that a confirm that a specific that a specific natural a specific natural person specific natural person is natural person is the person is the person is the person he the person he or person he or she he or she claims or she claims to she claims to be claims to be as to be as well be as well as as well as systems well as systems that as systems that are systems that are used that are used to are used to confirm used to confirm the to confirm the identity confirm the identity of the identity of a identity of a natural of a natural person a natural person for natural person for the person for the sole for the sole purpose the sole purpose of sole purpose of having purpose of having access of having access to having access to a access to a service to a service a a service a device service a device or a device or premises.
this exclusion exclusion is is justified justified by by the the fact fact that that such such systems systems are are likely likely to to have have a a minor minor impact impact on on fundamental fundamental rights rights of of natural natural persons persons compared compared to to remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems which which may may be be used used for for the the processing processing of of the the biometric biometric data data of of a a large large number number of of persons.
this exclusion is exclusion is justified is justified by justified by the by the fact the fact that fact that such that such systems such systems are systems are likely are likely to likely to have to have a have a minor a minor impact minor impact on impact on fundamental on fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of natural of natural persons natural persons compared persons compared to compared to remote to remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems which systems which may which may be may be used be used for used for the for the processing the processing of processing of the of the biometric the biometric data biometric data of data of a of a large a large number large number of number of persons.
this exclusion is justified exclusion is justified by is justified by the justified by the fact by the fact that the fact that such fact that such systems that such systems are such systems are likely systems are likely to are likely to have likely to have a to have a minor have a minor impact a minor impact on minor impact on fundamental impact on fundamental rights on fundamental rights of fundamental rights of natural rights of natural persons of natural persons compared natural persons compared to persons compared to remote compared to remote biometric to remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems which identification systems which may systems which may be which may be used may be used for be used for the used for the processing for the processing of the processing of the processing of the biometric of the biometric data the biometric data of biometric data of a data of a large of a large number a large number of large number of persons.
in the the case case of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ systems systems the the capturing capturing of of the the biometric biometric data data the the comparison comparison and and the the identification identification occur occur all all instantaneously instantaneously near-instantaneously near-instantaneously or or in in any any event event without without a a significant significant delay.
in the case the case of case of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ systems ‘real-time’ systems the systems the capturing the capturing of capturing of the of the biometric the biometric data biometric data the data the comparison the comparison and comparison and the and the identification the identification occur identification occur all occur all instantaneously all instantaneously near-instantaneously instantaneously near-instantaneously or near-instantaneously or in or in any in any event any event without event without a without a significant a significant delay.
in the case of the case of ‘real-time’ case of ‘real-time’ systems of ‘real-time’ systems the ‘real-time’ systems the capturing systems the capturing of the capturing of the capturing of the biometric of the biometric data the biometric data the biometric data the comparison data the comparison and the comparison and the comparison and the identification and the identification occur the identification occur all identification occur all instantaneously occur all instantaneously near-instantaneously all instantaneously near-instantaneously or instantaneously near-instantaneously or in near-instantaneously or in any or in any event in any event without any event without a event without a significant without a significant delay.
in this this regard regard there there should should be be no no scope scope for for circumventing circumventing the the rules rules of of this this regulation regulation on on the the ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ use use of of the the ai ai systems systems in in question question by by providing providing for for minor minor delays.
in this regard this regard there regard there should there should be should be no be no scope no scope for scope for circumventing for circumventing the circumventing the rules the rules of rules of this of this regulation this regulation on regulation on the on the ‘real-time’ the ‘real-time’ use ‘real-time’ use of use of the of the ai the ai systems ai systems in systems in question in question by question by providing by providing for providing for minor for minor delays.
in this regard there this regard there should regard there should be there should be no should be no scope be no scope for no scope for circumventing scope for circumventing the for circumventing the rules circumventing the rules of the rules of this rules of this regulation of this regulation on this regulation on the regulation on the ‘real-time’ on the ‘real-time’ use the ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ use of the use of the ai of the ai systems the ai systems in ai systems in question systems in question by in question by providing question by providing for by providing for minor providing for minor delays.
‘real-time’ systems systems involve involve the the use use of of ‘live’ ‘live’ or or ‘near-‘live’ ‘near-‘live’ material material such such as as video video footage footage generated generated by by a a camera camera or or other other device device with with similar similar functionality.
‘real-time’ systems involve systems involve the involve the use the use of use of ‘live’ of ‘live’ or ‘live’ or ‘near-‘live’ or ‘near-‘live’ material ‘near-‘live’ material such material such as such as video as video footage video footage generated footage generated by generated by a by a camera a camera or camera or other or other device other device with device with similar with similar functionality.
‘real-time’ systems involve the systems involve the use involve the use of the use of ‘live’ use of ‘live’ or of ‘live’ or ‘near-‘live’ ‘live’ or ‘near-‘live’ material or ‘near-‘live’ material such ‘near-‘live’ material such as material such as video such as video footage as video footage generated video footage generated by footage generated by a generated by a camera by a camera or a camera or other camera or other device or other device with other device with similar device with similar functionality.
in the the case case of of ‘post’ ‘post’ systems systems in in contrast contrast the the biometric biometric data data have have already already been been captured captured and and the the comparison comparison and and identification identification occur occur only only after after a a significant significant delay.
in the case the case of case of ‘post’ of ‘post’ systems ‘post’ systems in systems in contrast in contrast the contrast the biometric the biometric data biometric data have data have already have already been already been captured been captured and captured and the and the comparison the comparison and comparison and identification and identification occur identification occur only occur only after only after a after a significant a significant delay.
in the case of the case of ‘post’ case of ‘post’ systems of ‘post’ systems in ‘post’ systems in contrast systems in contrast the in contrast the biometric contrast the biometric data the biometric data have biometric data have already data have already been have already been captured already been captured and been captured and the captured and the comparison and the comparison and the comparison and identification comparison and identification occur and identification occur only identification occur only after occur only after a only after a significant after a significant delay.
this involves involves material material such such as as pictures pictures or or video video footage footage generated generated by by closed closed circuit circuit television television cameras cameras or or private private devices devices which which has has been been generated generated before before the the use use of of the the system system in in respect respect of of the the natural natural persons persons concerned.
this involves material involves material such material such as such as pictures as pictures or pictures or video or video footage video footage generated footage generated by generated by closed by closed circuit closed circuit television circuit television cameras television cameras or cameras or private or private devices private devices which devices which has which has been has been generated been generated before generated before the before the use the use of use of the of the system the system in system in respect in respect of respect of the of the natural the natural persons natural persons concerned.
this involves material such involves material such as material such as pictures such as pictures or as pictures or video pictures or video footage or video footage generated video footage generated by footage generated by closed generated by closed circuit by closed circuit television closed circuit television cameras circuit television cameras or television cameras or private cameras or private devices or private devices which private devices which has devices which has been which has been generated has been generated before been generated before the generated before the use before the use of the use of the use of the system of the system in the system in respect system in respect of in respect of the respect of the natural of the natural persons the natural persons concerned.
tree..b rbek rbek en en for for the the purposes purposes of of this this regulation regulation the the notion notion of of publicly publicly accessible accessible space space should should be be understood understood as as referring referring to to any any physical physical place place that that is is accessible accessible to to an an undetermined undetermined number number of of natural natural persons persons and and irrespective irrespective of of whether whether the the place place in in question question is is privately privately or or publicly publicly owned.
tree..b rbek en rbek en for en for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of this of this regulation this regulation the regulation the notion the notion of notion of publicly of publicly accessible publicly accessible space accessible space should space should be should be understood be understood as understood as referring as referring to referring to any to any physical any physical place physical place that place that is that is accessible is accessible to accessible to an to an undetermined an undetermined number undetermined number of number of natural of natural persons natural persons and persons and irrespective and irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether the whether the place the place in place in question in question is question is privately is privately or privately or publicly or publicly owned.
tree..b rbek en for rbek en for the en for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of this purposes of this regulation of this regulation the this regulation the notion regulation the notion of the notion of publicly notion of publicly accessible of publicly accessible space publicly accessible space should accessible space should be space should be understood should be understood as be understood as referring understood as referring to as referring to any referring to any physical to any physical place any physical place that physical place that is place that is accessible that is accessible to is accessible to an accessible to an undetermined to an undetermined number an undetermined number of undetermined number of natural number of natural persons of natural persons and natural persons and irrespective persons and irrespective of and irrespective of whether irrespective of whether the of whether the place whether the place in the place in question place in question is in question is privately question is privately or is privately or publicly privately or publicly owned.
and irrepective irrepective of of the the activity activity for for which which the the place place may may be be used used such such as as commerce commerce for for instance instance shops shops restaurants restaurants cafés cafés services services for for instance instance banks banks professional professional activities activities hospitality hospitality sport sport for for instance instance swimming swimming pools pools gyms gyms stadiums stadiums transport transport for for instance instance bus bus metro metro and and railway railway stations stations airports airports means means of of transport transport entertainment entertainment for for instance instance cinemas cinemas theatres theatres museums museums concert concert and and conference conference halls halls leisure leisure or or otherwise otherwise for for instance instance public public roads roads and and squares squares parks parks forests forests playgrounds.
and irrepective of irrepective of the of the activity the activity for activity for which for which the which the place the place may place may be may be used be used such used such as such as commerce as commerce for commerce for instance for instance shops instance shops restaurants shops restaurants cafés restaurants cafés services cafés services for services for instance for instance banks instance banks professional banks professional activities professional activities hospitality activities hospitality sport hospitality sport for sport for instance for instance swimming instance swimming pools swimming pools gyms pools gyms stadiums gyms stadiums transport stadiums transport for transport for instance for instance bus instance bus metro bus metro and metro and railway and railway stations railway stations airports stations airports means airports means of means of transport of transport entertainment transport entertainment for entertainment for instance for instance cinemas instance cinemas theatres cinemas theatres museums theatres museums concert museums concert and concert and conference and conference halls conference halls leisure halls leisure or leisure or otherwise or otherwise for otherwise for instance for instance public instance public roads public roads and roads and squares and squares parks squares parks forests parks forests playgrounds.
and irrepective of the irrepective of the activity of the activity for the activity for which activity for which the for which the place which the place may the place may be place may be used may be used such be used such as used such as commerce such as commerce for as commerce for instance commerce for instance shops for instance shops restaurants instance shops restaurants cafés shops restaurants cafés services restaurants cafés services for cafés services for instance services for instance banks for instance banks professional instance banks professional activities banks professional activities hospitality professional activities hospitality sport activities hospitality sport for hospitality sport for instance sport for instance swimming for instance swimming pools instance swimming pools gyms swimming pools gyms stadiums pools gyms stadiums transport gyms stadiums transport for stadiums transport for instance transport for instance bus for instance bus metro instance bus metro and bus metro and railway metro and railway stations and railway stations airports railway stations airports means stations airports means of airports means of transport means of transport entertainment of transport entertainment for transport entertainment for instance entertainment for instance cinemas for instance cinemas theatres instance cinemas theatres museums cinemas theatres museums concert theatres museums concert and museums concert and conference concert and conference halls and conference halls leisure conference halls leisure or halls leisure or otherwise leisure or otherwise for or otherwise for instance otherwise for instance public for instance public roads instance public roads and public roads and squares roads and squares parks and squares parks forests squares parks forests playgrounds.
a place place should should be be classified classified as as publicly publicly accessible accessible also also if if regardless regardless of of potential potential capacity capacity or or security security restrictions restrictions access access is is subject subject to to certain certain predetermined predetermined conditions conditions which which can can be be fulfilled fulfilled by by an an undetermined undetermined number number of of persons persons such such as as purchase purchase of of a a ticket ticket or or title title of of transport transport prior prior registration registration or or having having a a certain certain age.
a place should place should be should be classified be classified as classified as publicly as publicly accessible publicly accessible also accessible also if also if regardless if regardless of regardless of potential of potential capacity potential capacity or capacity or security or security restrictions security restrictions access restrictions access is access is subject is subject to subject to certain to certain predetermined certain predetermined conditions predetermined conditions which conditions which can which can be can be fulfilled be fulfilled by fulfilled by an by an undetermined an undetermined number undetermined number of number of persons of persons such persons such as such as purchase as purchase of purchase of a of a ticket a ticket or ticket or title or title of title of transport of transport prior transport prior registration prior registration or registration or having or having a having a certain a certain age.
a place should be place should be classified should be classified as be classified as publicly classified as publicly accessible as publicly accessible also publicly accessible also if accessible also if regardless also if regardless of if regardless of potential regardless of potential capacity of potential capacity or potential capacity or security capacity or security restrictions or security restrictions access security restrictions access is restrictions access is subject access is subject to is subject to certain subject to certain predetermined to certain predetermined conditions certain predetermined conditions which predetermined conditions which can conditions which can be which can be fulfilled can be fulfilled by be fulfilled by an fulfilled by an undetermined by an undetermined number an undetermined number of undetermined number of persons number of persons such of persons such as persons such as purchase such as purchase of as purchase of a purchase of a ticket of a ticket or a ticket or title ticket or title of or title of transport title of transport prior of transport prior registration transport prior registration or prior registration or having registration or having a or having a certain having a certain age.
by contrast contrast a a place place should should not not be be considered considered publicly publicly accessible accessible if if access access is is limited limited to to specific specific and and defined defined natural natural persons persons through through either either union union or or national national law law directly directly related related to to public public safety safety or or security security or or through through the the clear clear manifestation manifestation of of will will by by the the person person having having the the relevant relevant authority authority on on the the place.
by contrast a contrast a place a place should place should not should not be not be considered be considered publicly considered publicly accessible publicly accessible if accessible if access if access is access is limited is limited to limited to specific to specific and specific and defined and defined natural defined natural persons natural persons through persons through either through either union either union or union or national or national law national law directly law directly related directly related to related to public to public safety public safety or safety or security or security or security or through or through the through the clear the clear manifestation clear manifestation of manifestation of will of will by will by the by the person the person having person having the having the relevant the relevant authority relevant authority on authority on the on the place.
by contrast a place contrast a place should a place should not place should not be should not be considered not be considered publicly be considered publicly accessible considered publicly accessible if publicly accessible if access accessible if access is if access is limited access is limited to is limited to specific limited to specific and to specific and defined specific and defined natural and defined natural persons defined natural persons through natural persons through either persons through either union through either union or either union or national union or national law or national law directly national law directly related law directly related to directly related to public related to public safety to public safety or public safety or security safety or security or or security or through security or through the or through the clear through the clear manifestation the clear manifestation of clear manifestation of will manifestation of will by of will by the will by the person by the person having the person having the person having the relevant having the relevant authority the relevant authority on relevant authority on the authority on the place.
the factual factual possibility possibility of of access access alone alone e.g.
the factual possibility factual possibility of possibility of access of access alone access alone e.g.
the factual possibility of factual possibility of access possibility of access alone of access alone e.g.
an unlocked unlocked door door an an open open gate gate in in a a fence fence does does not not imply imply that that the the place place is is publicly publicly accessible accessible in in the the presence presence of of indications indications or or circumstances circumstances suggesting suggesting the the contrary contrary e.g.
an unlocked door unlocked door an door an open an open gate open gate in gate in a in a fence a fence does fence does not does not imply not imply that imply that the that the place the place is place is publicly is publicly accessible publicly accessible in accessible in the in the presence the presence of presence of indications of indications or indications or circumstances or circumstances suggesting circumstances suggesting the suggesting the contrary the contrary e.g.
an unlocked door an unlocked door an open door an open gate an open gate in open gate in a gate in a fence in a fence does a fence does not fence does not imply does not imply that not imply that the imply that the place that the place is the place is publicly place is publicly accessible is publicly accessible in publicly accessible in the accessible in the presence in the presence of the presence of indications presence of indications or of indications or circumstances indications or circumstances suggesting or circumstances suggesting the circumstances suggesting the contrary suggesting the contrary e.g.
signs prohibiting prohibiting or or restricting restricting access.
signs prohibiting or prohibiting or restricting or restricting access.
signs prohibiting or restricting prohibiting or restricting access.
company and and factory factory premises premises as as well well as as offices offices and and workplaces workplaces that that are are intended intended to to be be accessed accessed only only by by relevant relevant employees employees and and service service providers providers are are places places that that are are not not publicly publicly accessible.
company and factory and factory premises factory premises as premises as well as well as well as offices as offices and offices and workplaces and workplaces that workplaces that are that are intended are intended to intended to be to be accessed be accessed only accessed only by only by relevant by relevant employees relevant employees and employees and service and service providers service providers are providers are places are places that places that are that are not are not publicly not publicly accessible.
company and factory premises and factory premises as factory premises as well premises as well as as well as offices well as offices and as offices and workplaces offices and workplaces that and workplaces that are workplaces that are intended that are intended to are intended to be intended to be accessed to be accessed only be accessed only by accessed only by relevant only by relevant employees by relevant employees and relevant employees and service employees and service providers and service providers are service providers are places providers are places that are places that are places that are not that are not publicly are not publicly accessible.
publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces should should not not include include prisons prisons or or border border control control areas.
publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces should spaces should not should not include not include prisons include prisons or prisons or border or border control border control areas.
publicly accessible spaces should accessible spaces should not spaces should not include should not include prisons not include prisons or include prisons or border prisons or border control or border control areas.
some other other areas areas may may be be composed composed of of both both not not publicly publicly accessible accessible and and publicly publicly accessible accessible areas areas such such as as the the hallway hallway of of a a private private residential residential building building necessary necessary to to access access a a doctors doctors office office or or an an airport.
some other areas other areas may areas may be may be composed be composed of composed of both of both not both not publicly not publicly accessible publicly accessible and accessible and publicly and publicly accessible publicly accessible areas accessible areas such areas such as such as the as the hallway the hallway of hallway of a of a private a private residential private residential building residential building necessary building necessary to necessary to access to access a access a doctors a doctors office doctors office or office or an or an airport.
some other areas may other areas may be areas may be composed may be composed of be composed of both composed of both not of both not publicly both not publicly accessible not publicly accessible and publicly accessible and publicly accessible and publicly accessible and publicly accessible areas publicly accessible areas such accessible areas such as areas such as the such as the hallway as the hallway of the hallway of a hallway of a private of a private residential a private residential building private residential building necessary residential building necessary to building necessary to access necessary to access a to access a doctors access a doctors office a doctors office or doctors office or an office or an airport.
online spaces spaces are are not not covered covered either either as as they they are are not not physical physical spaces.
online spaces are spaces are not are not covered not covered either covered either as either as they as they are they are not are not physical not physical spaces.
online spaces are not spaces are not covered are not covered either not covered either as covered either as they either as they are as they are not they are not physical are not physical spaces.
whether a a given given space space is is accessible accessible to to the the public public should should however however be be determined determined on on a a case-by-case case-by-case basis basis having having regard regard to to the the specificities specificities of of the the individual individual situation situation at at hand.
whether a given a given space given space is space is accessible is accessible to accessible to the to the public the public should public should however should however be however be determined be determined on determined on a on a case-by-case a case-by-case basis case-by-case basis having basis having regard having regard to regard to the to the specificities the specificities of specificities of the of the individual the individual situation individual situation at situation at hand.
whether a given space a given space is given space is accessible space is accessible to is accessible to the accessible to the public to the public should the public should however public should however be should however be determined however be determined on be determined on a determined on a case-by-case on a case-by-case basis a case-by-case basis having case-by-case basis having regard basis having regard to having regard to the regard to the specificities to the specificities of the specificities of the specificities of the individual of the individual situation the individual situation at individual situation at hand.
in order order to to ensure ensure a a level level playing playing field field and and an an effective effective protection protection of of rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of individuals individuals across across the the union union the the rules rules established established by by this this regulation regulation should should apply apply to to providers providers of of ai ai systems systems in in a a non-discriminatory non-discriminatory manner manner irrespective irrespective of of whether whether they they are are established established within within the the union union or or in in a a third third country country and and to to users users of of ai ai systems systems established established within within the the union.
in order to order to ensure to ensure a ensure a level a level playing level playing field playing field and field and an and an effective an effective protection effective protection of protection of rights of rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of individuals of individuals across individuals across the across the union the union the union the rules the rules established rules established by established by this by this regulation this regulation should regulation should apply should apply to apply to providers to providers of providers of ai of ai systems ai systems in systems in a in a non-discriminatory a non-discriminatory manner non-discriminatory manner irrespective manner irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether they whether they are they are established are established within established within the within the union the union or union or in or in a in a third a third country third country and country and to and to users to users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems established systems established within established within the within the union.
in order to ensure order to ensure a to ensure a level ensure a level playing a level playing field level playing field and playing field and an field and an effective and an effective protection an effective protection of effective protection of rights protection of rights and of rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of individuals freedoms of individuals across of individuals across the individuals across the union across the union the the union the rules union the rules established the rules established by rules established by this established by this regulation by this regulation should this regulation should apply regulation should apply to should apply to providers apply to providers of to providers of ai providers of ai systems of ai systems in ai systems in a systems in a non-discriminatory in a non-discriminatory manner a non-discriminatory manner irrespective non-discriminatory manner irrespective of manner irrespective of whether irrespective of whether they of whether they are whether they are established they are established within are established within the established within the union within the union or the union or in union or in a or in a third in a third country a third country and third country and to country and to users and to users of to users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems established ai systems established within systems established within the established within the union.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in light light of of their their digital digital nature nature certain certain ai ai systems systems should should fall fall within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation even even when when they they are are neither neither placed placed on on the the market market nor nor put put into into service service nor nor used used in in the the union.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in light in light of light of their of their digital their digital nature digital nature certain nature certain ai certain ai systems ai systems should systems should fall should fall within fall within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation even regulation even when even when they when they are they are neither are neither placed neither placed on placed on the on the market the market nor market nor put nor put into put into service into service nor service nor used nor used in used in the in the union.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in light en in light of in light of their light of their digital of their digital nature their digital nature certain digital nature certain ai nature certain ai systems certain ai systems should ai systems should fall systems should fall within should fall within the fall within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation even this regulation even when regulation even when they even when they are when they are neither they are neither placed are neither placed on neither placed on the placed on the market on the market nor the market nor put market nor put into nor put into service put into service nor into service nor used service nor used in nor used in the used in the union.
this is is the the case case for for example example of of an an operator operator established established in in the the union union that that contracts contracts certain certain services services to to an an operator operator established established outside outside the the union union in in relation relation to to an an activity activity to to be be performed performed by by an an ai ai system system that that would would qualify qualify as as high-risk.
this is the is the case the case for case for example for example of example of an of an operator an operator established operator established in established in the in the union the union that union that contracts that contracts certain contracts certain services certain services to services to an to an operator an operator established operator established outside established outside the outside the union the union in union in relation in relation to relation to an to an activity an activity to activity to be to be performed be performed by performed by an by an ai an ai system ai system that system that would that would qualify would qualify as qualify as high-risk.
this is the case is the case for the case for example case for example of for example of an example of an operator of an operator established an operator established in operator established in the established in the union in the union that the union that contracts union that contracts certain that contracts certain services contracts certain services to certain services to an services to an operator to an operator established an operator established outside operator established outside the established outside the union outside the union in the union in relation union in relation to in relation to an relation to an activity to an activity to an activity to be activity to be performed to be performed by be performed by an performed by an ai by an ai system an ai system that ai system that would system that would qualify that would qualify as would qualify as high-risk.
in those those circumstances circumstances the the ai ai system system used used by by the the operator operator outside outside the the union union could could process process data data lawfully lawfully collected collected in in and and transferred transferred from from the the union union and and provide provide to to the the contracting contracting operator operator in in the the union union the the output output of of that that ai ai system system resulting resulting from from that that processing processing without without that that ai ai system system being being placed placed on on the the market market put put into into service service or or used used in in the the union.
in those circumstances those circumstances the circumstances the ai the ai system ai system used system used by used by the by the operator the operator outside operator outside the outside the union the union could union could process could process data process data lawfully data lawfully collected lawfully collected in collected in and in and transferred and transferred from transferred from the from the union the union and union and provide and provide to provide to the to the contracting the contracting operator contracting operator in operator in the in the union the union the union the output the output of output of that of that ai that ai system ai system resulting system resulting from resulting from that from that processing that processing without processing without that without that ai that ai system ai system being system being placed being placed on placed on the on the market the market put market put into put into service into service or service or used or used in used in the in the union.
in those circumstances the those circumstances the ai circumstances the ai system the ai system used ai system used by system used by the used by the operator by the operator outside the operator outside the operator outside the union outside the union could the union could process union could process data could process data lawfully process data lawfully collected data lawfully collected in lawfully collected in and collected in and transferred in and transferred from and transferred from the transferred from the union from the union and the union and provide union and provide to and provide to the provide to the contracting to the contracting operator the contracting operator in contracting operator in the operator in the union in the union the the union the output union the output of the output of that output of that ai of that ai system that ai system resulting ai system resulting from system resulting from that resulting from that processing from that processing without that processing without that processing without that ai without that ai system that ai system being ai system being placed system being placed on being placed on the placed on the market on the market put the market put into market put into service put into service or into service or used service or used in or used in the used in the union.
to prevent prevent the the circumvention circumvention of of this this regulation regulation and and to to ensure ensure an an effective effective protection protection of of natural natural persons persons located located in in the the union union this this regulation regulation should should also also apply apply to to providers providers and and users users of of ai ai systems systems that that are are established established in in a a third third country country to to the the extent extent the the output output produced produced by by those those systems systems is is used used in in the the union.
to prevent the prevent the circumvention the circumvention of circumvention of this of this regulation this regulation and regulation and to and to ensure to ensure an ensure an effective an effective protection effective protection of protection of natural of natural persons natural persons located persons located in located in the in the union the union this union this regulation this regulation should regulation should also should also apply also apply to apply to providers to providers and providers and users and users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are established are established in established in a in a third a third country third country to country to the to the extent the extent the extent the output the output produced output produced by produced by those by those systems those systems is systems is used is used in used in the in the union.
to prevent the circumvention prevent the circumvention of the circumvention of this circumvention of this regulation of this regulation and this regulation and to regulation and to ensure and to ensure an to ensure an effective ensure an effective protection an effective protection of effective protection of natural protection of natural persons of natural persons located natural persons located in persons located in the located in the union in the union this the union this regulation union this regulation should this regulation should also regulation should also apply should also apply to also apply to providers apply to providers and to providers and users providers and users of and users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are established that are established in are established in a established in a third in a third country a third country to third country to the country to the extent to the extent the the extent the output extent the output produced the output produced by output produced by those produced by those systems by those systems is those systems is used systems is used in is used in the used in the union.
nonetheless to to take take into into account account existing existing arrangements arrangements and and special special needs needs for for future future cooperation cooperation with with foreign foreign partners partners with with whom whom information information and and evidence evidence is is exchanged exchanged this this regulation regulation should should not not apply apply to to public public authorities authorities of of a a third third country country and and international international organisations organisations when when acting acting in in the the framework framework of of international international agreements agreements concluded concluded at at national national or or european european level level for for law law enforcement enforcement and and judicial judicial cooperation cooperation with with the the union union or or with with its its member member states.
nonetheless to take to take into take into account into account existing account existing arrangements existing arrangements and arrangements and special and special needs special needs for needs for future for future cooperation future cooperation with cooperation with foreign with foreign partners foreign partners with partners with whom with whom information whom information and information and evidence and evidence is evidence is exchanged is exchanged this exchanged this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not apply not apply to apply to public to public authorities public authorities of authorities of a of a third a third country third country and country and international and international organisations international organisations when organisations when acting when acting in acting in the in the framework the framework of framework of international of international agreements international agreements concluded agreements concluded at concluded at national at national or national or european or european level european level for level for law for law enforcement law enforcement and enforcement and judicial and judicial cooperation judicial cooperation with cooperation with the with the union the union or union or with or with its with its member its member states.
nonetheless to take into to take into account take into account existing into account existing arrangements account existing arrangements and existing arrangements and special arrangements and special needs and special needs for special needs for future needs for future cooperation for future cooperation with future cooperation with foreign cooperation with foreign partners with foreign partners with foreign partners with whom partners with whom information with whom information and whom information and evidence information and evidence is and evidence is exchanged evidence is exchanged this is exchanged this regulation exchanged this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not apply should not apply to not apply to public apply to public authorities to public authorities of public authorities of a authorities of a third of a third country a third country and third country and international country and international organisations and international organisations when international organisations when acting organisations when acting in when acting in the acting in the framework in the framework of the framework of international framework of international agreements of international agreements concluded international agreements concluded at agreements concluded at national concluded at national or at national or european national or european level or european level for european level for law level for law enforcement for law enforcement and law enforcement and judicial enforcement and judicial cooperation and judicial cooperation with judicial cooperation with the cooperation with the union with the union or the union or with union or with its or with its member with its member states.
such agreements agreements have have been been concluded concluded bilaterally bilaterally between between member member states states and and third third countries countries or or between between the the european european union union europol europol and and other other eu eu agencies agencies and and third third countries countries and and international international organisations.
such agreements have agreements have been have been concluded been concluded bilaterally concluded bilaterally between bilaterally between member between member states member states and states and third and third countries third countries or countries or between or between the between the european the european union european union europol union europol and europol and other and other eu other eu agencies eu agencies and agencies and third and third countries third countries and countries and international and international organisations.
such agreements have been agreements have been concluded have been concluded bilaterally been concluded bilaterally between concluded bilaterally between member bilaterally between member states between member states and member states and third states and third countries and third countries or third countries or between countries or between the or between the european between the european union the european union europol european union europol and union europol and other europol and other eu and other eu agencies other eu agencies and eu agencies and third agencies and third countries and third countries and third countries and international countries and international organisations.
recipient member member states states authorities authorities and and union union institutions institutions offices offices bodies bodies and and bodies bodies making making use use of of such such outputs outputs in in the the union union remain remain accountable accountable to to ensure ensure their their use use comply comply with with union union law.
recipient member states member states authorities states authorities and authorities and union and union institutions union institutions offices institutions offices bodies offices bodies and bodies and bodies and bodies making bodies making use making use of use of such of such outputs such outputs in outputs in the in the union the union remain union remain accountable remain accountable to accountable to ensure to ensure their ensure their use their use comply use comply with comply with union with union law.
recipient member states authorities member states authorities and states authorities and union authorities and union institutions and union institutions offices union institutions offices bodies institutions offices bodies and offices bodies and bodies bodies and bodies making and bodies making use bodies making use of making use of such use of such outputs of such outputs in such outputs in the outputs in the union in the union remain the union remain accountable union remain accountable to remain accountable to ensure accountable to ensure their to ensure their use ensure their use comply their use comply with use comply with union comply with union law.
when those those international international agreements agreements are are revised revised or or new new ones ones are are concluded concluded in in the the future future the the contracting contracting parties parties should should undertake undertake the the utmost utmost effort effort to to align align those those agreements agreements with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation.
when those international those international agreements international agreements are agreements are revised are revised or revised or new or new ones new ones are ones are concluded are concluded in concluded in the in the future the future the future the contracting the contracting parties contracting parties should parties should undertake should undertake the undertake the utmost the utmost effort utmost effort to effort to align to align those align those agreements those agreements with agreements with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation.
when those international agreements those international agreements are international agreements are revised agreements are revised or are revised or new revised or new ones or new ones are new ones are concluded ones are concluded in are concluded in the concluded in the future in the future the the future the contracting future the contracting parties the contracting parties should contracting parties should undertake parties should undertake the should undertake the utmost undertake the utmost effort the utmost effort to utmost effort to align effort to align those to align those agreements align those agreements with those agreements with the agreements with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation.
this regulation regulation should should also also apply apply to to union union institutions institutions offices offices bodies bodies and and agencies agencies when when acting acting as as a a provider provider or or user user of of an an ai ai system.
this regulation should regulation should also should also apply also apply to apply to union to union institutions union institutions offices institutions offices bodies offices bodies and bodies and agencies and agencies when agencies when acting when acting as acting as a as a provider a provider or provider or user or user of user of an of an ai an ai system.
this regulation should also regulation should also apply should also apply to also apply to union apply to union institutions to union institutions offices union institutions offices bodies institutions offices bodies and offices bodies and agencies bodies and agencies when and agencies when acting agencies when acting as when acting as a acting as a provider as a provider or a provider or user provider or user of or user of an user of an ai of an ai system.
tree..b rbek rbek en en -a -a if if and and insofar insofar ai ai systems systems are are placed placed on on the the market market put put into into service service or or used used with with or or without without modification modification of of such such systems systems for for military military defence defence or or national national security security purposes purposes those those should should be be excluded excluded from from the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation regardless regardless of of which which type type of of entity entity is is carrying carrying out out those those activities activities such such as as whether whether it it is is a a public public or or private private entity.
tree..b rbek en rbek en -a en -a if -a if and if and insofar and insofar ai insofar ai systems ai systems are systems are placed are placed on placed on the on the market the market put market put into put into service into service or service or used or used with used with or with or without or without modification without modification of modification of such of such systems such systems for systems for military for military defence military defence or defence or national or national security national security purposes security purposes those purposes those should those should be should be excluded be excluded from excluded from the from the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation regardless regulation regardless of regardless of which of which type which type of type of entity of entity is entity is carrying is carrying out carrying out those out those activities those activities such activities such as such as whether as whether it whether it is it is a is a public a public or public or private or private entity.
tree..b rbek en -a rbek en -a if en -a if and -a if and insofar if and insofar ai and insofar ai systems insofar ai systems are ai systems are placed systems are placed on are placed on the placed on the market on the market put the market put into market put into service put into service or into service or used service or used with or used with or used with or without with or without modification or without modification of without modification of such modification of such systems of such systems for such systems for military systems for military defence for military defence or military defence or national defence or national security or national security purposes national security purposes those security purposes those should purposes those should be those should be excluded should be excluded from be excluded from the excluded from the scope from the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation regardless this regulation regardless of regulation regardless of which regardless of which type of which type of which type of entity type of entity is of entity is carrying entity is carrying out is carrying out those carrying out those activities out those activities such those activities such as activities such as whether such as whether it as whether it is whether it is a it is a public is a public or a public or private public or private entity.
as regards regards military military and and defence defence purposes purposes such such exclusion exclusion is is justified justified both both by by article article teu teu and and by by the the specifities specifities of of the the member member states’ states’ and and the the common common union union defence defence policy policy covered covered by by chapter chapter of of title title v v of of the the treaty treaty on on european european union union teu teu that that are are subject subject to to public public international international law law which which is is therefore therefore the the more more appropriate appropriate legal legal framework framework for for the the regulation regulation of of ai ai systems systems in in the the context context of of the the use use of of lethal lethal force force and and other other ai ai systems systems in in the the context context of of military military and and defence defence activities.
as regards military regards military and military and defence and defence purposes defence purposes such purposes such exclusion such exclusion is exclusion is justified is justified both justified both by both by article by article teu article teu and teu and by and by the by the specifities the specifities of specifities of the of the member the member states’ member states’ and states’ and the and the common the common union common union defence union defence policy defence policy covered policy covered by covered by chapter by chapter of chapter of title of title v title v of v of the of the treaty the treaty on treaty on european on european union european union teu union teu that teu that are that are subject are subject to subject to public to public international public international law international law which law which is which is therefore is therefore the therefore the more the more appropriate more appropriate legal appropriate legal framework legal framework for framework for the for the regulation the regulation of regulation of ai of ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the context the context of context of the of the use the use of use of lethal of lethal force lethal force and force and other and other ai other ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the context the context of context of military of military and military and defence and defence activities.
as regards military and regards military and defence military and defence purposes and defence purposes such defence purposes such exclusion purposes such exclusion is such exclusion is justified exclusion is justified both is justified both by justified both by article both by article teu by article teu and article teu and by teu and by the and by the specifities by the specifities of the specifities of the specifities of the member of the member states’ the member states’ and member states’ and the states’ and the common and the common union the common union defence common union defence policy union defence policy covered defence policy covered by policy covered by chapter covered by chapter of by chapter of title chapter of title v of title v of title v of the v of the treaty of the treaty on the treaty on european treaty on european union on european union teu european union teu that union teu that are teu that are subject that are subject to are subject to public subject to public international to public international law public international law which international law which is law which is therefore which is therefore the is therefore the more therefore the more appropriate the more appropriate legal more appropriate legal framework appropriate legal framework for legal framework for the framework for the regulation for the regulation of the regulation of ai regulation of ai systems of ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the context in the context of the context of the context of the use of the use of the use of lethal use of lethal force of lethal force and lethal force and other force and other ai and other ai systems other ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the context in the context of the context of military context of military and of military and defence military and defence activities.
as regards regards national national security security purposes purposes the the exclusion exclusion is is justified justified both both by by the the fact fact that that national national security security remains remains the the sole sole responsibility responsibility of of member member states states in in accordance accordance with with article article teu teu and and by by the the specific specific nature nature and and operational operational needs needs of of national national security security activities activities and and specific specific national national rules rules applicable applicable to to those those activities.
as regards national regards national security national security purposes security purposes the purposes the exclusion the exclusion is exclusion is justified is justified both justified both by both by the by the fact the fact that fact that national that national security national security remains security remains the remains the sole the sole responsibility sole responsibility of responsibility of member of member states member states in states in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article teu article teu and teu and by and by the by the specific the specific nature specific nature and nature and operational and operational needs operational needs of needs of national of national security national security activities security activities and activities and specific and specific national specific national rules national rules applicable rules applicable to applicable to those to those activities.
as regards national security regards national security purposes national security purposes the security purposes the exclusion purposes the exclusion is the exclusion is justified exclusion is justified both is justified both by justified both by the both by the fact by the fact that the fact that national fact that national security that national security remains national security remains the security remains the sole remains the sole responsibility the sole responsibility of sole responsibility of member responsibility of member states of member states in member states in accordance states in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article teu with article teu and article teu and by teu and by the and by the specific by the specific nature the specific nature and specific nature and operational nature and operational needs and operational needs of operational needs of national needs of national security of national security activities national security activities and security activities and specific activities and specific national and specific national rules specific national rules applicable national rules applicable to rules applicable to those applicable to those activities.
nonetheless if if an an ai ai system system developed developed placed placed on on the the market market put put into into service service or or used used for for military military defence defence or or national national security security purposes purposes is is used used outside outside those those temporarily temporarily or or permanently permanently for for other other purposes purposes for for example example civilian civilian or or humanitarian humanitarian purposes purposes law law enforcement enforcement or or public public security security purposes purposes such such a a system system would would fall fall within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation.
nonetheless if an if an ai an ai system ai system developed system developed placed developed placed on placed on the on the market the market put market put into put into service into service or service or used or used for used for military for military defence military defence or defence or national or national security national security purposes security purposes is purposes is used is used outside used outside those outside those temporarily those temporarily or temporarily or permanently or permanently for permanently for other for other purposes other purposes for purposes for example for example civilian example civilian or civilian or humanitarian or humanitarian purposes humanitarian purposes law purposes law enforcement law enforcement or enforcement or public or public security public security purposes security purposes such purposes such a such a system a system would system would fall would fall within fall within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation.
nonetheless if an ai if an ai system an ai system developed ai system developed placed system developed placed on developed placed on the placed on the market on the market put the market put into market put into service put into service or into service or used service or used for or used for military used for military defence for military defence or military defence or national defence or national security or national security purposes national security purposes is security purposes is used purposes is used outside is used outside those used outside those temporarily outside those temporarily or those temporarily or permanently temporarily or permanently for or permanently for other permanently for other purposes for other purposes for other purposes for example purposes for example civilian for example civilian or example civilian or humanitarian civilian or humanitarian purposes or humanitarian purposes law humanitarian purposes law enforcement purposes law enforcement or law enforcement or public enforcement or public security or public security purposes public security purposes such security purposes such a purposes such a system such a system would a system would fall system would fall within would fall within the fall within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation.
in that that case case the the entity entity using using the the system system for for other other than than military military defence defence or or national national security security purposes purposes should should ensure ensure compliance compliance of of the the system system with with this this regulation regulation unless unless the the system system is is already already compliant compliant with with this this regulation.
in that case that case the case the entity the entity using entity using the using the system the system for system for other for other than other than military than military defence military defence or defence or national or national security national security purposes security purposes should purposes should ensure should ensure compliance ensure compliance of compliance of the of the system the system with system with this with this regulation this regulation unless regulation unless the unless the system the system is system is already is already compliant already compliant with compliant with this with this regulation.
in that case the that case the entity case the entity using the entity using the entity using the system using the system for the system for other system for other than for other than military other than military defence than military defence or military defence or national defence or national security or national security purposes national security purposes should security purposes should ensure purposes should ensure compliance should ensure compliance of ensure compliance of the compliance of the system of the system with the system with this system with this regulation with this regulation unless this regulation unless the regulation unless the system unless the system is the system is already system is already compliant is already compliant with already compliant with this compliant with this regulation.
ai systems systems placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service for for an an excluded excluded i.e.
ai systems placed systems placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service for service for an for an excluded an excluded i.e.
ai systems placed on systems placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service for into service for an service for an excluded for an excluded i.e.
military defence defence or or national national security security and and one one or or more more non non excluded excluded purposes purposes e.g.
military defence or defence or national or national security national security and security and one and one or one or more or more non more non excluded non excluded purposes excluded purposes e.g.
military defence or national defence or national security or national security and national security and one security and one or and one or more one or more non or more non excluded more non excluded purposes non excluded purposes e.g.
civilian purposes purposes law law enforcement enforcement etc.
civilian purposes law purposes law enforcement law enforcement etc.
civilian purposes law enforcement purposes law enforcement etc.
fall within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation and and providers providers of of those those systems systems should should ensure ensure compliance compliance with with this this regulation.
fall within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation and regulation and providers and providers of providers of those of those systems those systems should systems should ensure should ensure compliance ensure compliance with compliance with this with this regulation.
fall within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation and this regulation and providers regulation and providers of and providers of those providers of those systems of those systems should those systems should ensure systems should ensure compliance should ensure compliance with ensure compliance with this compliance with this regulation.
in those those cases cases the the fact fact that that an an ai ai system system may may fall fall within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation should should not not affect affect the the possibility possibility of of entities entities carrying carrying out out national national security security defence defence and and military military activities activities regardless regardless of of the the type type of of entity entity carrying carrying out out those those activities activities to to use use ai ai systems systems for for national national security security military military and and defence defence purposes purposes the the use use of of which which is is excluded excluded from from the the scope scope of of this this regulation.
in those cases those cases the cases the fact the fact that fact that an that an ai an ai system ai system may system may fall may fall within fall within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not affect not affect the affect the possibility the possibility of possibility of entities of entities carrying entities carrying out carrying out national out national security national security defence security defence and defence and military and military activities military activities regardless activities regardless of regardless of the of the type the type of type of entity of entity carrying entity carrying out carrying out those out those activities those activities to activities to use to use ai use ai systems ai systems for systems for national for national security national security military security military and military and defence and defence purposes defence purposes the purposes the use the use of use of which of which is which is excluded is excluded from excluded from the from the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation.
in those cases the those cases the fact cases the fact that the fact that an fact that an ai that an ai system an ai system may ai system may fall system may fall within may fall within the fall within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not affect should not affect the not affect the possibility affect the possibility of the possibility of entities possibility of entities carrying of entities carrying out entities carrying out national carrying out national security out national security defence national security defence and security defence and military defence and military activities and military activities regardless military activities regardless of activities regardless of the regardless of the type of the type of the type of entity type of entity carrying of entity carrying out entity carrying out those carrying out those activities out those activities to those activities to use activities to use ai to use ai systems use ai systems for ai systems for national systems for national security for national security military national security military and security military and defence military and defence purposes and defence purposes the defence purposes the use purposes the use of the use of which use of which is of which is excluded which is excluded from is excluded from the excluded from the scope from the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation.
an ai ai system system placed placed on on the the market market for for civilian civilian or or law law enforcement enforcement purposes purposes which which is is used used with with or or without without modification modification for for military military defence defence or or national national security security purposes purposes should should not not fall fall within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation regardless regardless of of the the type type of of entity entity carrying carrying out out those those activities.
an ai system ai system placed system placed on placed on the on the market the market for market for civilian for civilian or civilian or law or law enforcement law enforcement purposes enforcement purposes which purposes which is which is used is used with used with or with or without or without modification without modification for modification for military for military defence military defence or defence or national or national security national security purposes security purposes should purposes should not should not fall not fall within fall within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation regardless regulation regardless of regardless of the of the type the type of type of entity of entity carrying entity carrying out carrying out those out those activities.
an ai system placed ai system placed on system placed on the placed on the market on the market for the market for civilian market for civilian or for civilian or law civilian or law enforcement or law enforcement purposes law enforcement purposes which enforcement purposes which is purposes which is used which is used with is used with or used with or without with or without modification or without modification for without modification for military modification for military defence for military defence or military defence or national defence or national security or national security purposes national security purposes should security purposes should not purposes should not fall should not fall within not fall within the fall within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation regardless this regulation regardless of regulation regardless of the regardless of the type of the type of the type of entity type of entity carrying of entity carrying out entity carrying out those carrying out those activities.
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a this this regulation regulation should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to the the provisions provisions regarding regarding the the liability liability of of intermediary intermediary service service providers providers set set out out in in directive directive ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council as as amended amended by by the the digital digital services services act.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a this a this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the provisions the provisions regarding provisions regarding the regarding the liability the liability of liability of intermediary of intermediary service intermediary service providers service providers set providers set out set out in out in directive in directive ec directive ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council as council as amended as amended by amended by the by the digital the digital services digital services act.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a this en a this regulation a this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the provisions to the provisions regarding the provisions regarding the provisions regarding the liability regarding the liability of the liability of intermediary liability of intermediary service of intermediary service providers intermediary service providers set service providers set out providers set out in set out in directive out in directive ec in directive ec of directive ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council as the council as amended council as amended by as amended by the amended by the digital by the digital services the digital services act.
b this this regulation regulation should should not not undermine undermine research research and and development development activity activity and and should should respect respect freedom freedom of of science.
b this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not undermine not undermine research undermine research and research and development and development activity development activity and activity and should and should respect should respect freedom respect freedom of freedom of science.
b this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not undermine should not undermine research not undermine research and undermine research and development research and development activity and development activity and development activity and should activity and should respect and should respect freedom should respect freedom of respect freedom of science.
it is is therefore therefore necessary necessary to to exclude exclude from from its its scope scope ai ai systems systems specifically specifically developed developed and and put put into into service service for for the the sole sole purpose purpose of of scientific scientific research research and and development development and and to to ensure ensure that that the the regulation regulation does does not not otherwise otherwise affect affect scientific scientific research research and and development development activity activity on on ai ai systems.
it is therefore is therefore necessary therefore necessary to necessary to exclude to exclude from exclude from its from its scope its scope ai scope ai systems ai systems specifically systems specifically developed specifically developed and developed and put and put into put into service into service for service for the for the sole the sole purpose sole purpose of purpose of scientific of scientific research scientific research and research and development and development and development and to and to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the regulation the regulation does regulation does not does not otherwise not otherwise affect otherwise affect scientific affect scientific research scientific research and research and development and development activity development activity on activity on ai on ai systems.
it is therefore necessary is therefore necessary to therefore necessary to exclude necessary to exclude from to exclude from its exclude from its scope from its scope ai its scope ai systems scope ai systems specifically ai systems specifically developed systems specifically developed and specifically developed and put developed and put into and put into service put into service for into service for the service for the sole for the sole purpose the sole purpose of sole purpose of scientific purpose of scientific research of scientific research and scientific research and development research and development and and development and to development and to ensure and to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the regulation that the regulation does the regulation does not regulation does not otherwise does not otherwise affect not otherwise affect scientific otherwise affect scientific research affect scientific research and scientific research and development research and development activity and development activity on development activity on ai activity on ai systems.
as regards regards product product oriented oriented research research activity activity by by providers providers the the provisions provisions of of this this regulation regulation should should also also not not apply.
as regards product regards product oriented product oriented research oriented research activity research activity by activity by providers by providers the providers the provisions the provisions of provisions of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should also should also not also not apply.
as regards product oriented regards product oriented research product oriented research activity oriented research activity by research activity by providers activity by providers the by providers the provisions providers the provisions of the provisions of this provisions of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should also regulation should also not should also not apply.
this is is without without prejudice prejudice to to the the obligation obligation to to comply comply with with this this regulation regulation when when an an ai ai system system falling falling into into the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service as as a a result result of of such such research research and and development development activity activity and and to to the the application application of of provisions provisions on on regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes and and testing testing in in real real world world conditions.
this is without is without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the obligation the obligation to obligation to comply to comply with comply with this with this regulation this regulation when regulation when an when an ai an ai system ai system falling system falling into falling into the into the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation is regulation is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service as service as a as a result a result of result of such of such research such research and research and development and development activity development activity and activity and to and to the to the application the application of application of provisions of provisions on provisions on regulatory on regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes and sandboxes and testing and testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions.
this is without prejudice is without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the obligation to the obligation to the obligation to comply obligation to comply with to comply with this comply with this regulation with this regulation when this regulation when an regulation when an ai when an ai system an ai system falling ai system falling into system falling into the falling into the scope into the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation is this regulation is placed regulation is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service as into service as a service as a result as a result of a result of such result of such research of such research and such research and development research and development activity and development activity and development activity and to activity and to the and to the application to the application of the application of provisions application of provisions on of provisions on regulatory provisions on regulatory sandboxes on regulatory sandboxes and regulatory sandboxes and testing sandboxes and testing in and testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions.
furthermore without without prejudice prejudice to to the the foregoing foregoing regarding regarding ai ai systems systems specifically specifically developed developed and and put put into into service service for for the the sole sole purpose purpose of of scientific scientific research research and and development development any any other other ai ai system system that that may may be be used used for for the the conduct conduct of of any any reaserch reaserch and and development development activity activity should should remain remain subject subject to to the the provisions provisions of of this this regulation.
furthermore without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the foregoing the foregoing regarding foregoing regarding ai regarding ai systems ai systems specifically systems specifically developed specifically developed and developed and put and put into put into service into service for service for the for the sole the sole purpose sole purpose of purpose of scientific of scientific research scientific research and research and development and development any development any other any other ai other ai system ai system that system that may that may be may be used be used for used for the for the conduct the conduct of conduct of any of any reaserch any reaserch and reaserch and development and development activity development activity should activity should remain should remain subject remain subject to subject to the to the provisions the provisions of provisions of this of this regulation.
furthermore without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the foregoing to the foregoing regarding the foregoing regarding ai foregoing regarding ai systems regarding ai systems specifically ai systems specifically developed systems specifically developed and specifically developed and put developed and put into and put into service put into service for into service for the service for the sole for the sole purpose the sole purpose of sole purpose of scientific purpose of scientific research of scientific research and scientific research and development research and development any and development any other development any other ai any other ai system other ai system that ai system that may system that may be that may be used may be used for be used for the used for the conduct for the conduct of the conduct of any conduct of any reaserch of any reaserch and any reaserch and development reaserch and development activity and development activity should development activity should remain activity should remain subject should remain subject to remain subject to the subject to the provisions to the provisions of the provisions of this provisions of this regulation.
under all all circumstances circumstances any any research research and and development development activity activity should should be be carried carried out out in in accordance accordance with with recognised recognised ethical ethical and and professional professional standards standards for for scientific scientific research.
under all circumstances all circumstances any circumstances any research any research and research and development and development activity development activity should activity should be should be carried be carried out carried out in out in accordance in accordance with accordance with recognised with recognised ethical recognised ethical and ethical and professional and professional standards professional standards for standards for scientific for scientific research.
under all circumstances any all circumstances any research circumstances any research and any research and development research and development activity and development activity should development activity should be activity should be carried should be carried out be carried out in carried out in accordance out in accordance with in accordance with recognised accordance with recognised ethical with recognised ethical and recognised ethical and professional ethical and professional standards and professional standards for professional standards for scientific standards for scientific research.
tree..b rbek rbek en en c c in in the the light light of of the the nature nature and and complexity complexity of of the the value value chain chain for for ai ai systems systems it it is is essential essential to to clarify clarify the the role role of of actors actors who who may may contribute contribute to to the the development development of of ai ai systems systems notably notably high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
tree..b rbek en rbek en c en c in c in the in the light the light of light of the of the nature the nature and nature and complexity and complexity of complexity of the of the value the value chain value chain for chain for ai for ai systems ai systems it systems it is it is essential is essential to essential to clarify to clarify the clarify the role the role of role of actors of actors who actors who may who may contribute may contribute to contribute to the to the development the development of development of ai of ai systems ai systems notably systems notably high-risk notably high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek en c rbek en c in en c in the c in the light in the light of the light of the light of the nature of the nature and the nature and complexity nature and complexity of and complexity of the complexity of the value of the value chain the value chain for value chain for ai chain for ai systems for ai systems it ai systems it is systems it is essential it is essential to is essential to clarify essential to clarify the to clarify the role clarify the role of the role of actors role of actors who of actors who may actors who may contribute who may contribute to may contribute to the contribute to the development to the development of the development of ai development of ai systems of ai systems notably ai systems notably high-risk systems notably high-risk ai notably high-risk ai systems.
in particular particular it it is is necessary necessary to to clarify clarify that that general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems are are ai ai systems systems that that are are intended intended by by the the provider provider to to perform perform generally generally applicable applicable functions functions such such as as imagespeech imagespeech recognition recognition and and in in a a plurality plurality of of contexts.
in particular it particular it is it is necessary is necessary to necessary to clarify to clarify that clarify that general that general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems are systems are ai are ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are intended are intended by intended by the by the provider the provider to provider to perform to perform generally perform generally applicable generally applicable functions applicable functions such functions such as such as imagespeech as imagespeech recognition imagespeech recognition and recognition and in and in a in a plurality a plurality of plurality of contexts.
in particular it is particular it is necessary it is necessary to is necessary to clarify necessary to clarify that to clarify that general clarify that general purpose that general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems are ai systems are ai systems are ai systems are ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are intended that are intended by are intended by the intended by the provider by the provider to the provider to perform provider to perform generally to perform generally applicable perform generally applicable functions generally applicable functions such applicable functions such as functions such as imagespeech such as imagespeech recognition as imagespeech recognition and imagespeech recognition and in recognition and in a and in a plurality in a plurality of a plurality of contexts.
they may may be be used used as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems by by themselves themselves or or be be components components of of other other high high risk risk ai ai systems.
they may be may be used be used as used as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems by systems by themselves by themselves or themselves or be or be components be components of components of other of other high other high risk high risk ai risk ai systems.
they may be used may be used as be used as high-risk used as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems by ai systems by themselves systems by themselves or by themselves or be themselves or be components or be components of be components of other components of other high of other high risk other high risk ai high risk ai systems.
therefore due due to to their their particular particular nature nature and and in in order order to to ensure ensure a a fair fair sharing sharing of of responsibilities responsibilities along along the the ai ai value value chain chain such such systems systems should should be be subject subject to to proportionate proportionate and and more more specific specific requirements requirements and and obligations obligations under under this this regulation regulation while while ensuring ensuring a a high high level level of of protection protection of of fundamental fundamental rights rights health health and and safety.
therefore due to due to their to their particular their particular nature particular nature and nature and in and in order in order to order to ensure to ensure a ensure a fair a fair sharing fair sharing of sharing of responsibilities of responsibilities along responsibilities along the along the ai the ai value ai value chain value chain such chain such systems such systems should systems should be should be subject be subject to subject to proportionate to proportionate and proportionate and more and more specific more specific requirements specific requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations under obligations under this under this regulation this regulation while regulation while ensuring while ensuring a ensuring a high a high level high level of level of protection of protection of protection of fundamental of fundamental rights fundamental rights health rights health and health and safety.
therefore due to their due to their particular to their particular nature their particular nature and particular nature and in nature and in order and in order to in order to ensure order to ensure a to ensure a fair ensure a fair sharing a fair sharing of fair sharing of responsibilities sharing of responsibilities along of responsibilities along the responsibilities along the ai along the ai value the ai value chain ai value chain such value chain such systems chain such systems should such systems should be systems should be subject should be subject to be subject to proportionate subject to proportionate and to proportionate and more proportionate and more specific and more specific requirements more specific requirements and specific requirements and obligations requirements and obligations under and obligations under this obligations under this regulation under this regulation while this regulation while ensuring regulation while ensuring a while ensuring a high ensuring a high level a high level of high level of protection level of protection of of protection of fundamental protection of fundamental rights of fundamental rights health fundamental rights health and rights health and safety.
in addition addition the the providers providers of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems irrespective irrespective of of whether whether they they may may be be used used as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems as as such such by by other other providers providers or or as as components components of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems should should cooperate cooperate as as appropriate appropriate with with the the providers providers of of the the respective respective high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems to to enable enable their their compliance compliance with with the the relevant relevant obligations obligations under under this this regulation regulation and and with with the the competent competent authorities authorities established established under under this this regulation.
in addition the addition the providers the providers of providers of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems irrespective systems irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether they whether they may they may be may be used be used as used as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems as systems as such as such by such by other by other providers other providers or providers or as or as components as components of components of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should cooperate should cooperate as cooperate as appropriate as appropriate with appropriate with the with the providers the providers of providers of the of the respective the respective high-risk respective high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems to systems to enable to enable their enable their compliance their compliance with compliance with the with the relevant the relevant obligations relevant obligations under obligations under this under this regulation this regulation and regulation and with and with the with the competent the competent authorities competent authorities established authorities established under established under this under this regulation.
in addition the providers addition the providers of the providers of general providers of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems irrespective ai systems irrespective of systems irrespective of whether irrespective of whether they of whether they may whether they may be they may be used may be used as be used as high-risk used as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems as ai systems as such systems as such by as such by other such by other providers by other providers or other providers or as providers or as components or as components of as components of high-risk components of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems should ai systems should cooperate systems should cooperate as should cooperate as appropriate cooperate as appropriate with as appropriate with the appropriate with the providers with the providers of the providers of the providers of the respective of the respective high-risk the respective high-risk ai respective high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems to ai systems to enable systems to enable their to enable their compliance enable their compliance with their compliance with the compliance with the relevant with the relevant obligations the relevant obligations under relevant obligations under this obligations under this regulation under this regulation and this regulation and with regulation and with the and with the competent with the competent authorities the competent authorities established competent authorities established under authorities established under this established under this regulation.
in order order to to take take into into account account the the specific specific characteristics characteristics of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems and and the the fast fast evolving evolving market market and and technological technological developments developments in in the the field field implementing implementing powers powers should should be be conferred conferred on on the the commission commission to to specify specify and and adapt adapt the the application application of of the the requirements requirements established established under under this this regulation regulation to to general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems and and to to specify specify the the information information to to be be shared shared by by the the providers providers of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems in in order order to to enable enable the the providers providers of of the the respective respective high-risk high-risk ai ai system system to to comply comply with with their their obligations obligations under under this this regulation.
in order to order to take to take into take into account into account the account the specific the specific characteristics specific characteristics of characteristics of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems and systems and the and the fast the fast evolving fast evolving market evolving market and market and technological and technological developments technological developments in developments in the in the field the field implementing field implementing powers implementing powers should powers should be should be conferred be conferred on conferred on the on the commission the commission to commission to specify to specify and specify and adapt and adapt the adapt the application the application of application of the of the requirements the requirements established requirements established under established under this under this regulation this regulation to regulation to general to general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems and systems and to and to specify to specify the specify the information the information to information to be to be shared be shared by shared by the by the providers the providers of providers of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems in systems in order in order to order to enable to enable the enable the providers the providers of providers of the of the respective the respective high-risk respective high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system to system to comply to comply with comply with their with their obligations their obligations under obligations under this under this regulation.
in order to take order to take into to take into account take into account the into account the specific account the specific characteristics the specific characteristics of specific characteristics of general characteristics of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems and ai systems and the systems and the fast and the fast evolving the fast evolving market fast evolving market and evolving market and technological market and technological developments and technological developments in technological developments in the developments in the field in the field implementing the field implementing powers field implementing powers should implementing powers should be powers should be conferred should be conferred on be conferred on the conferred on the commission on the commission to the commission to specify commission to specify and to specify and adapt specify and adapt the and adapt the application adapt the application of the application of the application of the requirements of the requirements established the requirements established under requirements established under this established under this regulation under this regulation to this regulation to general regulation to general purpose to general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems and ai systems and to systems and to specify and to specify the to specify the information specify the information to the information to be information to be shared to be shared by be shared by the shared by the providers by the providers of the providers of general providers of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems in ai systems in order systems in order to in order to enable order to enable the to enable the providers enable the providers of the providers of the providers of the respective of the respective high-risk the respective high-risk ai respective high-risk ai system high-risk ai system to ai system to comply system to comply with to comply with their comply with their obligations with their obligations under their obligations under this obligations under this regulation.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to ensure ensure a a consistent consistent and and high high level level of of protection protection of of public public interests interests as as regards regards health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights common common normative normative standards standards for for all all high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems should should be be established.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to ensure to ensure a ensure a consistent a consistent and consistent and high and high level high level of level of protection of protection of protection of public of public interests public interests as interests as regards as regards health regards health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights common rights common normative common normative standards normative standards for standards for all for all high-risk all high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should be should be established.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to ensure order to ensure a to ensure a consistent ensure a consistent and a consistent and high consistent and high level and high level of high level of protection level of protection of of protection of public protection of public interests of public interests as public interests as regards interests as regards health as regards health safety regards health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights common fundamental rights common normative rights common normative standards common normative standards for normative standards for all standards for all high-risk for all high-risk ai all high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems should ai systems should be systems should be established.
those standards standards should should be be consistent consistent with with the the charter charter of of fundamental fundamental rights rights of of the the european european union union the the charter charter and and should should be be non-discriminatory non-discriminatory and and in in line line with with the the union’s union’s international international trade trade commitments.
those standards should standards should be should be consistent be consistent with consistent with the with the charter the charter of charter of fundamental of fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of the of the european the european union european union the union the charter the charter and charter and should and should be should be non-discriminatory be non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory and in and in line in line with line with the with the union’s the union’s international union’s international trade international trade commitments.
those standards should be standards should be consistent should be consistent with be consistent with the consistent with the charter with the charter of the charter of fundamental charter of fundamental rights of fundamental rights of fundamental rights of the rights of the european of the european union the european union the european union the charter union the charter and the charter and should charter and should be and should be non-discriminatory should be non-discriminatory and be non-discriminatory and in non-discriminatory and in line and in line with in line with the line with the union’s with the union’s international the union’s international trade union’s international trade commitments.
in order order to to introduce introduce a a proportionate proportionate and and effective effective set set of of binding binding rules rules for for ai ai systems systems a a clearly clearly defined defined risk-based risk-based approach approach should should be be followed.
in order to order to introduce to introduce a introduce a proportionate a proportionate and proportionate and effective and effective set effective set of set of binding of binding rules binding rules for rules for ai for ai systems ai systems a systems a clearly a clearly defined clearly defined risk-based defined risk-based approach risk-based approach should approach should be should be followed.
in order to introduce order to introduce a to introduce a proportionate introduce a proportionate and a proportionate and effective proportionate and effective set and effective set of effective set of binding set of binding rules of binding rules for binding rules for ai rules for ai systems for ai systems a ai systems a clearly systems a clearly defined a clearly defined risk-based clearly defined risk-based approach defined risk-based approach should risk-based approach should be approach should be followed.
that approach approach should should tailor tailor the the type type and and content content of of such such rules rules to to the the intensity intensity and and scope scope of of the the risks risks that that ai ai systems systems can can generate.
that approach should approach should tailor should tailor the tailor the type the type and type and content and content of content of such of such rules such rules to rules to the to the intensity the intensity and intensity and scope and scope of scope of the of the risks the risks that risks that ai that ai systems ai systems can systems can generate.
that approach should tailor approach should tailor the should tailor the type tailor the type and the type and content type and content of and content of such content of such rules of such rules to such rules to the rules to the intensity to the intensity and the intensity and scope intensity and scope of and scope of the scope of the risks of the risks that the risks that ai risks that ai systems that ai systems can ai systems can generate.
it is is therefore therefore necessary necessary to to prohibit prohibit certain certain artificial artificial intelligence intelligence practices practices to to lay lay down down requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems and and obligations obligations for for the the relevant relevant operators operators and and to to lay lay down down transparency transparency obligations obligations for for certain certain ai ai systems.
it is therefore is therefore necessary therefore necessary to necessary to prohibit to prohibit certain prohibit certain artificial certain artificial intelligence artificial intelligence practices intelligence practices to practices to lay to lay down lay down requirements down requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems and systems and obligations and obligations for obligations for the for the relevant the relevant operators relevant operators and operators and to and to lay to lay down lay down transparency down transparency obligations transparency obligations for obligations for certain for certain ai certain ai systems.
it is therefore necessary is therefore necessary to therefore necessary to prohibit necessary to prohibit certain to prohibit certain artificial prohibit certain artificial intelligence certain artificial intelligence practices artificial intelligence practices to intelligence practices to lay practices to lay down to lay down requirements lay down requirements for down requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems and ai systems and obligations systems and obligations for and obligations for the obligations for the relevant for the relevant operators the relevant operators and relevant operators and to operators and to lay and to lay down to lay down transparency lay down transparency obligations down transparency obligations for transparency obligations for certain obligations for certain ai for certain ai systems.
aside from from the the many many beneficial beneficial uses uses of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence that that technology technology can can also also be be misused misused and and provide provide novel novel and and powerful powerful tools tools for for manipulative manipulative exploitative exploitative and and social social control control practices.
aside from the from the many the many beneficial many beneficial uses beneficial uses of uses of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence that intelligence that technology that technology can technology can also can also be also be misused be misused and misused and provide and provide novel provide novel and novel and powerful and powerful tools powerful tools for tools for manipulative for manipulative exploitative manipulative exploitative and exploitative and social and social control social control practices.
aside from the many from the many beneficial the many beneficial uses many beneficial uses of beneficial uses of artificial uses of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence that artificial intelligence that technology intelligence that technology can that technology can also technology can also be can also be misused also be misused and be misused and provide misused and provide novel and provide novel and provide novel and powerful novel and powerful tools and powerful tools for powerful tools for manipulative tools for manipulative exploitative for manipulative exploitative and manipulative exploitative and social exploitative and social control and social control practices.
such practices practices are are particularly particularly harmful harmful and and should should be be prohibited prohibited because because they they contradict contradict union union values values of of respect respect for for human human dignity dignity freedom freedom equality equality democracy democracy and and the the rule rule of of law law and and union union fundamental fundamental rights rights including including the the right right to to non-discrimination non-discrimination data data protection protection and and privacy privacy and and the the rights rights of of the the child.
such practices are practices are particularly are particularly harmful particularly harmful and harmful and should and should be should be prohibited be prohibited because prohibited because they because they contradict they contradict union contradict union values union values of values of respect of respect for respect for human for human dignity human dignity freedom dignity freedom equality freedom equality democracy equality democracy and democracy and the and the rule the rule of rule of law of law and law and union and union fundamental union fundamental rights fundamental rights including rights including the including the right the right to right to non-discrimination to non-discrimination data non-discrimination data protection data protection and protection and privacy and privacy and privacy and the and the rights the rights of rights of the of the child.
such practices are particularly practices are particularly harmful are particularly harmful and particularly harmful and should harmful and should be and should be prohibited should be prohibited because be prohibited because they prohibited because they contradict because they contradict union they contradict union values contradict union values of union values of respect values of respect for of respect for human respect for human dignity for human dignity freedom human dignity freedom equality dignity freedom equality democracy freedom equality democracy and equality democracy and the democracy and the rule and the rule of the rule of law rule of law and of law and union law and union fundamental and union fundamental rights union fundamental rights including fundamental rights including the rights including the right including the right to the right to non-discrimination right to non-discrimination data to non-discrimination data protection non-discrimination data protection and data protection and privacy protection and privacy and and privacy and the privacy and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights of the child.
tree..b rbek rbek en en ai-enabled ai-enabled manipulative manipulative techniques techniques can can be be used used to to persuade persuade persons persons to to engage engage in in unwanted unwanted behaviours behaviours or or to to deceive deceive them them by by nudging nudging them them into into decisions decisions in in a a way way that that subverts subverts and and impairs impairs their their autonomy autonomy decision-making decision-making and and free free choices.
tree..b rbek en rbek en ai-enabled en ai-enabled manipulative ai-enabled manipulative techniques manipulative techniques can techniques can be can be used be used to used to persuade to persuade persons persuade persons to persons to engage to engage in engage in unwanted in unwanted behaviours unwanted behaviours or behaviours or to or to deceive to deceive them deceive them by them by nudging by nudging them nudging them into them into decisions into decisions in decisions in a in a way a way that way that subverts that subverts and subverts and impairs and impairs their impairs their autonomy their autonomy decision-making autonomy decision-making and decision-making and free and free choices.
tree..b rbek en ai-enabled rbek en ai-enabled manipulative en ai-enabled manipulative techniques ai-enabled manipulative techniques can manipulative techniques can be techniques can be used can be used to be used to persuade used to persuade persons to persuade persons to persuade persons to engage persons to engage in to engage in unwanted engage in unwanted behaviours in unwanted behaviours or unwanted behaviours or to behaviours or to deceive or to deceive them to deceive them by deceive them by nudging them by nudging them by nudging them into nudging them into decisions them into decisions in into decisions in a decisions in a way in a way that a way that subverts way that subverts and that subverts and impairs subverts and impairs their and impairs their autonomy impairs their autonomy decision-making their autonomy decision-making and autonomy decision-making and free decision-making and free choices.
the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service or or use use of of certain certain ai ai systems systems materially materially distorting distorting human human behaviour behaviour whereby whereby physical physical or or psychological psychological harms harms are are likely likely to to occur occur are are particularly particularly dangerous dangerous and and should should therefore therefore be be forbidden.
the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service or service or use or use of use of certain of certain ai certain ai systems ai systems materially systems materially distorting materially distorting human distorting human behaviour human behaviour whereby behaviour whereby physical whereby physical or physical or psychological or psychological harms psychological harms are harms are likely are likely to likely to occur to occur are occur are particularly are particularly dangerous particularly dangerous and dangerous and should and should therefore should therefore be therefore be forbidden.
the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service or into service or use service or use of or use of certain use of certain ai of certain ai systems certain ai systems materially ai systems materially distorting systems materially distorting human materially distorting human behaviour distorting human behaviour whereby human behaviour whereby physical behaviour whereby physical or whereby physical or psychological physical or psychological harms or psychological harms are psychological harms are likely harms are likely to are likely to occur likely to occur are to occur are particularly occur are particularly dangerous are particularly dangerous and particularly dangerous and should dangerous and should therefore and should therefore be should therefore be forbidden.
such ai ai systems systems deploy deploy subliminal subliminal components components such such as as audio audio image image video video stimuli stimuli that that persons persons cannot cannot perceive perceive as as those those stimuli stimuli are are beyond beyond human human perception perception or or other other subliminal subliminal techniques techniques that that subvert subvert or or impair impair person’s person’s autonomy autonomy decision-making decision-making or or free free choices choices in in ways ways that that people people are are not not consciously consciously aware aware of of or or even even if if aware aware not not able able to to control control or or resist resist for for example example in in cases cases of of machine-brain machine-brain interfaces interfaces or or virtual virtual reality.
such ai systems ai systems deploy systems deploy subliminal deploy subliminal components subliminal components such components such as such as audio as audio image audio image video image video stimuli video stimuli that stimuli that persons that persons cannot persons cannot perceive cannot perceive as perceive as those as those stimuli those stimuli are stimuli are beyond are beyond human beyond human perception human perception or perception or other or other subliminal other subliminal techniques subliminal techniques that techniques that subvert that subvert or subvert or impair or impair person’s impair person’s autonomy person’s autonomy decision-making autonomy decision-making or decision-making or free or free choices free choices in choices in ways in ways that ways that people that people are people are not are not consciously not consciously aware consciously aware of aware of or of or even or even if even if aware if aware not aware not able not able to able to control to control or control or resist or resist for resist for example for example in example in cases in cases of cases of machine-brain of machine-brain interfaces machine-brain interfaces or interfaces or virtual or virtual reality.
such ai systems deploy ai systems deploy subliminal systems deploy subliminal components deploy subliminal components such subliminal components such as components such as audio such as audio image as audio image video audio image video stimuli image video stimuli that video stimuli that persons stimuli that persons cannot that persons cannot perceive persons cannot perceive as cannot perceive as those perceive as those stimuli as those stimuli are those stimuli are beyond stimuli are beyond human are beyond human perception beyond human perception or human perception or other perception or other subliminal or other subliminal techniques other subliminal techniques that subliminal techniques that subvert techniques that subvert or that subvert or impair subvert or impair person’s or impair person’s autonomy impair person’s autonomy decision-making person’s autonomy decision-making or autonomy decision-making or free decision-making or free choices or free choices in free choices in ways choices in ways that in ways that people ways that people are that people are not people are not consciously are not consciously aware not consciously aware of consciously aware of or aware of or even of or even if or even if aware even if aware not if aware not able aware not able to not able to control able to control or to control or resist control or resist for or resist for example resist for example in for example in cases example in cases of in cases of machine-brain cases of machine-brain interfaces of machine-brain interfaces or machine-brain interfaces or virtual interfaces or virtual reality.
in addition addition ai ai systems systems may may also also otherwise otherwise exploit exploit vulnerabilities vulnerabilities of of a a specific specific group group of of persons persons due due to to their their age age disability disability within within the the meaning meaning of of directive directive eu eu or or a a specific specific social social or or economic economic situation situation that that is is likely likely to to make make those those persons persons more more vulnerable vulnerable to to exploitation exploitation such such as as persons persons living living in in extreme extreme poverty poverty ethnic ethnic or or religious religious minorities.
in addition ai addition ai systems ai systems may systems may also may also otherwise also otherwise exploit otherwise exploit vulnerabilities exploit vulnerabilities of vulnerabilities of a of a specific a specific group specific group of group of persons of persons due persons due to due to their to their age their age disability age disability within disability within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of directive of directive eu directive eu or eu or a or a specific a specific social specific social or social or economic or economic situation economic situation that situation that is that is likely is likely to likely to make to make those make those persons those persons more persons more vulnerable more vulnerable to vulnerable to exploitation to exploitation such exploitation such as such as persons as persons living persons living in living in extreme in extreme poverty extreme poverty ethnic poverty ethnic or ethnic or religious or religious minorities.
in addition ai systems addition ai systems may ai systems may also systems may also otherwise may also otherwise exploit also otherwise exploit vulnerabilities otherwise exploit vulnerabilities of exploit vulnerabilities of a vulnerabilities of a specific of a specific group a specific group of specific group of persons group of persons due of persons due to persons due to their due to their age to their age disability their age disability within age disability within the disability within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of directive meaning of directive eu of directive eu or directive eu or a eu or a specific or a specific social a specific social or specific social or economic social or economic situation or economic situation that economic situation that is situation that is likely that is likely to is likely to make likely to make those to make those persons make those persons more those persons more vulnerable persons more vulnerable to more vulnerable to exploitation vulnerable to exploitation such to exploitation such as exploitation such as persons such as persons living as persons living in persons living in extreme living in extreme poverty in extreme poverty ethnic extreme poverty ethnic or poverty ethnic or religious ethnic or religious minorities.
such ai ai systems systems can can be be placed placed on on the the market market put put into into service service or or used used with with the the objective objective to to or or the the effect effect of of materially materially distorting distorting the the behaviour behaviour of of a a person person and and in in a a manner manner that that causes causes or or is is reasonably reasonably likely likely to to cause cause physical physical or or phycological phycological harm harm to to that that or or another another person person or or groups groups of of persons persons including including harms harms that that may may be be accumulated accumulated over over time.
such ai systems ai systems can systems can be can be placed be placed on placed on the on the market the market put market put into put into service into service or service or used or used with used with the with the objective the objective to objective to or to or the or the effect the effect of effect of materially of materially distorting materially distorting the distorting the behaviour the behaviour of behaviour of a of a person a person and person and in and in a in a manner a manner that manner that causes that causes or causes or is or is reasonably is reasonably likely reasonably likely to likely to cause to cause physical cause physical or physical or phycological or phycological harm phycological harm to harm to that to that or that or another or another person another person or person or groups or groups of groups of persons of persons including persons including harms including harms that harms that may that may be may be accumulated be accumulated over accumulated over time.
such ai systems can ai systems can be systems can be placed can be placed on be placed on the placed on the market on the market put the market put into market put into service put into service or into service or used service or used with or used with the used with the objective with the objective to the objective to or objective to or the to or the effect or the effect of the effect of materially effect of materially distorting of materially distorting the materially distorting the behaviour distorting the behaviour of the behaviour of a behaviour of a person of a person and a person and in person and in a and in a manner in a manner that a manner that causes manner that causes or that causes or is causes or is reasonably or is reasonably likely is reasonably likely to reasonably likely to cause likely to cause physical to cause physical or cause physical or phycological physical or phycological harm or phycological harm to phycological harm to that harm to that or to that or another that or another person or another person or another person or groups person or groups of or groups of persons groups of persons including of persons including harms persons including harms that including harms that may harms that may be that may be accumulated may be accumulated over be accumulated over time.
the intention intention to to distort distort the the behaviour behaviour may may not not be be presumed presumed if if the the distortion distortion results results from from factors factors external external to to the the ai ai system system which which are are outside outside of of the the control control of of the the provider provider or or the the user user meaning meaning factors factors that that may may not not be be reasonably reasonably foreseen foreseen and and mitigated mitigated by by the the provider provider or or the the user user of of the the ai ai system.
the intention to intention to distort to distort the distort the behaviour the behaviour may behaviour may not may not be not be presumed be presumed if presumed if the if the distortion the distortion results distortion results from results from factors from factors external factors external to external to the to the ai the ai system ai system which system which are which are outside are outside of outside of the of the control the control of control of the of the provider the provider or provider or the or the user the user meaning user meaning factors meaning factors that factors that may that may not may not be not be reasonably be reasonably foreseen reasonably foreseen and foreseen and mitigated and mitigated by mitigated by the by the provider the provider or provider or the or the user the user of user of the of the ai the ai system.
the intention to distort intention to distort the to distort the behaviour distort the behaviour may the behaviour may not behaviour may not be may not be presumed not be presumed if be presumed if the presumed if the distortion if the distortion results the distortion results from distortion results from factors results from factors external from factors external to factors external to the external to the ai to the ai system the ai system which ai system which are system which are outside which are outside of are outside of the outside of the control of the control of the control of the control of the provider of the provider or the provider or the provider or the user or the user meaning the user meaning factors user meaning factors that meaning factors that may factors that may not that may not be may not be reasonably not be reasonably foreseen be reasonably foreseen and reasonably foreseen and mitigated foreseen and mitigated by and mitigated by the mitigated by the provider by the provider or the provider or the provider or the user or the user of the user of the user of the ai of the ai system.
in any any case case it it is is not not necessary necessary for for the the provider provider or or the the user user to to have have the the intention intention to to cause cause the the physical physical or or psychological psychological harm harm as as long long as as such such harm harm results results from from the the manipulative manipulative or or exploitative exploitative ai-enabled ai-enabled practices.
in any case any case it case it is it is not is not necessary not necessary for necessary for the for the provider the provider or provider or the or the user the user to user to have to have the have the intention the intention to intention to cause to cause the cause the physical the physical or physical or psychological or psychological harm psychological harm as harm as long as long as long as such as such harm such harm results harm results from results from the from the manipulative the manipulative or manipulative or exploitative or exploitative ai-enabled exploitative ai-enabled practices.
in any case it any case it is case it is not it is not necessary is not necessary for not necessary for the necessary for the provider for the provider or the provider or the provider or the user or the user to the user to have user to have the to have the intention have the intention to the intention to cause intention to cause the to cause the physical cause the physical or the physical or psychological physical or psychological harm or psychological harm as psychological harm as long harm as long as as long as such long as such harm as such harm results such harm results from harm results from the results from the manipulative from the manipulative or the manipulative or exploitative manipulative or exploitative ai-enabled or exploitative ai-enabled practices.
the prohibitions prohibitions for for such such ai ai practices practices are are complementary complementary to to the the provisions provisions contained contained in in directive directive ec ec notably notably that that unfair unfair commercial commercial practices practices leading leading to to economic economic or or financial financial harms harms to to consumers consumers are are prohibited prohibited under under all all circumstances circumstances irrespective irrespective of of whether whether they they are are put put in in place place through through ai ai systems systems or or otherwise.
the prohibitions for prohibitions for such for such ai such ai practices ai practices are practices are complementary are complementary to complementary to the to the provisions the provisions contained provisions contained in contained in directive in directive ec directive ec notably ec notably that notably that unfair that unfair commercial unfair commercial practices commercial practices leading practices leading to leading to economic to economic or economic or financial or financial harms financial harms to harms to consumers to consumers are consumers are prohibited are prohibited under prohibited under all under all circumstances all circumstances irrespective circumstances irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether they whether they are they are put are put in put in place in place through place through ai through ai systems ai systems or systems or otherwise.
the prohibitions for such prohibitions for such ai for such ai practices such ai practices are ai practices are complementary practices are complementary to are complementary to the complementary to the provisions to the provisions contained the provisions contained in provisions contained in directive contained in directive ec in directive ec notably directive ec notably that ec notably that unfair notably that unfair commercial that unfair commercial practices unfair commercial practices leading commercial practices leading to practices leading to economic leading to economic or to economic or financial economic or financial harms or financial harms to financial harms to consumers harms to consumers are to consumers are prohibited consumers are prohibited under are prohibited under all prohibited under all circumstances under all circumstances irrespective all circumstances irrespective of circumstances irrespective of whether irrespective of whether they of whether they are whether they are put they are put in are put in place put in place through in place through ai place through ai systems through ai systems or ai systems or otherwise.
the prohibitions prohibitions of of manipulative manipulative and and exploitative exploitative practices practices in in this this regulation regulation should should not not affect affect lawful lawful practices practices in in the the context context of of medical medical treatment treatment such such as as psychological psychological treatment treatment of of a a mental mental disease disease or or physical physical rehabilitation rehabilitation when when those those practices practices are are carried carried out out in in accordance accordance with with the the applicable applicable medical medical standards standards and and legislation.
the prohibitions of prohibitions of manipulative of manipulative and manipulative and exploitative and exploitative practices exploitative practices in practices in this in this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not affect not affect lawful affect lawful practices lawful practices in practices in the in the context the context of context of medical of medical treatment medical treatment such treatment such as such as psychological as psychological treatment psychological treatment of treatment of a of a mental a mental disease mental disease or disease or physical or physical rehabilitation physical rehabilitation when rehabilitation when those when those practices those practices are practices are carried are carried out carried out in out in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the applicable the applicable medical applicable medical standards medical standards and standards and legislation.
the prohibitions of manipulative prohibitions of manipulative and of manipulative and exploitative manipulative and exploitative practices and exploitative practices in exploitative practices in this practices in this regulation in this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not affect should not affect lawful not affect lawful practices affect lawful practices in lawful practices in the practices in the context in the context of the context of medical context of medical treatment of medical treatment such medical treatment such as treatment such as psychological such as psychological treatment as psychological treatment of psychological treatment of a treatment of a mental of a mental disease a mental disease or mental disease or physical disease or physical rehabilitation or physical rehabilitation when physical rehabilitation when those rehabilitation when those practices when those practices are those practices are carried practices are carried out are carried out in carried out in accordance out in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the applicable with the applicable medical the applicable medical standards applicable medical standards and medical standards and legislation.
in addition addition common common and and legitimate legitimate commercial commercial practices practices that that are are in in compliance compliance with with the the applicable applicable law law should should not not in in themselves themselves be be regarded regarded as as constituting constituting harmful harmful manipulative manipulative ai ai practices.
in addition common addition common and common and legitimate and legitimate commercial legitimate commercial practices commercial practices that practices that are that are in are in compliance in compliance with compliance with the with the applicable the applicable law applicable law should law should not should not in not in themselves in themselves be themselves be regarded be regarded as regarded as constituting as constituting harmful constituting harmful manipulative harmful manipulative ai manipulative ai practices.
in addition common and addition common and legitimate common and legitimate commercial and legitimate commercial practices legitimate commercial practices that commercial practices that are practices that are in that are in compliance are in compliance with in compliance with the compliance with the applicable with the applicable law the applicable law should applicable law should not law should not in should not in themselves not in themselves be in themselves be regarded themselves be regarded as be regarded as constituting regarded as constituting harmful as constituting harmful manipulative constituting harmful manipulative ai harmful manipulative ai practices.
tree..b rbek rbek en en ai ai systems systems providing providing social social scoring scoring of of natural natural persons persons by by public public authorities authorities or or by by private private actors actors may may lead lead to to discriminatory discriminatory outcomes outcomes and and the the exclusion exclusion of of certain certain groups.
tree..b rbek en rbek en ai en ai systems ai systems providing systems providing social providing social scoring social scoring of scoring of natural of natural persons natural persons by persons by public by public authorities public authorities or authorities or by or by private by private actors private actors may actors may lead may lead to lead to discriminatory to discriminatory outcomes discriminatory outcomes and outcomes and the and the exclusion the exclusion of exclusion of certain of certain groups.
tree..b rbek en ai rbek en ai systems en ai systems providing ai systems providing social systems providing social scoring providing social scoring of social scoring of natural scoring of natural persons of natural persons by natural persons by public persons by public authorities by public authorities or public authorities or by authorities or by private or by private actors by private actors may private actors may lead actors may lead to may lead to discriminatory lead to discriminatory outcomes to discriminatory outcomes and discriminatory outcomes and the outcomes and the exclusion and the exclusion of the exclusion of certain exclusion of certain groups.
they may may violate violate the the right right to to dignity dignity and and non-discrimination non-discrimination and and the the values values of of equality equality and and justice.
they may violate may violate the violate the right the right to right to dignity to dignity and dignity and non-discrimination and non-discrimination and non-discrimination and the and the values the values of values of equality of equality and equality and justice.
they may violate the may violate the right violate the right to the right to dignity right to dignity and to dignity and non-discrimination dignity and non-discrimination and and non-discrimination and the non-discrimination and the values and the values of the values of equality values of equality and of equality and justice.
such ai ai systems systems evaluate evaluate or or classify classify natural natural persons persons based based on on their their social social behaviour behaviour in in multiple multiple contexts contexts or or known known or or predicted predicted personal personal or or personality personality characteristics.
such ai systems ai systems evaluate systems evaluate or evaluate or classify or classify natural classify natural persons natural persons based persons based on based on their on their social their social behaviour social behaviour in behaviour in multiple in multiple contexts multiple contexts or contexts or known or known or known or predicted or predicted personal predicted personal or personal or personality or personality characteristics.
such ai systems evaluate ai systems evaluate or systems evaluate or classify evaluate or classify natural or classify natural persons classify natural persons based natural persons based on persons based on their based on their social on their social behaviour their social behaviour in social behaviour in multiple behaviour in multiple contexts in multiple contexts or multiple contexts or known contexts or known or or known or predicted known or predicted personal or predicted personal or predicted personal or personality personal or personality characteristics.
the social social score score obtained obtained from from such such ai ai systems systems may may lead lead to to the the detrimental detrimental or or unfavourable unfavourable treatment treatment of of natural natural persons persons or or whole whole groups groups thereof thereof in in social social contexts contexts which which are are unrelated unrelated to to the the context context in in which which the the data data was was originally originally generated generated or or collected collected or or to to a a detrimental detrimental treatment treatment that that is is disproportionate disproportionate or or unjustified unjustified to to the the gravity gravity of of their their social social behaviour.
the social score social score obtained score obtained from obtained from such from such ai such ai systems ai systems may systems may lead may lead to lead to the to the detrimental the detrimental or detrimental or unfavourable or unfavourable treatment unfavourable treatment of treatment of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or whole or whole groups whole groups thereof groups thereof in thereof in social in social contexts social contexts which contexts which are which are unrelated are unrelated to unrelated to the to the context the context in context in which in which the which the data the data was data was originally was originally generated originally generated or generated or collected or collected or collected or to or to a to a detrimental a detrimental treatment detrimental treatment that treatment that is that is disproportionate is disproportionate or disproportionate or unjustified or unjustified to unjustified to the to the gravity the gravity of gravity of their of their social their social behaviour.
the social score obtained social score obtained from score obtained from such obtained from such ai from such ai systems such ai systems may ai systems may lead systems may lead to may lead to the lead to the detrimental to the detrimental or the detrimental or unfavourable detrimental or unfavourable treatment or unfavourable treatment of unfavourable treatment of natural treatment of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or whole persons or whole groups or whole groups thereof whole groups thereof in groups thereof in social thereof in social contexts in social contexts which social contexts which are contexts which are unrelated which are unrelated to are unrelated to the unrelated to the context to the context in the context in which context in which the in which the data which the data was the data was originally data was originally generated was originally generated or originally generated or collected generated or collected or or collected or to collected or to a or to a detrimental to a detrimental treatment a detrimental treatment that detrimental treatment that is treatment that is disproportionate that is disproportionate or is disproportionate or unjustified disproportionate or unjustified to or unjustified to the unjustified to the gravity to the gravity of the gravity of their gravity of their social of their social behaviour.
ai systems systems entailing entailing such such unacceptable unacceptable scoring scoring practices practices should should be be therefore therefore prohibited.
ai systems entailing systems entailing such entailing such unacceptable such unacceptable scoring unacceptable scoring practices scoring practices should practices should be should be therefore be therefore prohibited.
ai systems entailing such systems entailing such unacceptable entailing such unacceptable scoring such unacceptable scoring practices unacceptable scoring practices should scoring practices should be practices should be therefore should be therefore prohibited.
this prohibition prohibition should should not not affect affect lawful lawful evaluation evaluation practices practices of of natural natural persons persons done done for for one one or or more more specific specific purpose purpose in in compliance compliance with with the the law.
this prohibition should prohibition should not should not affect not affect lawful affect lawful evaluation lawful evaluation practices evaluation practices of practices of natural of natural persons natural persons done persons done for done for one for one or one or more or more specific more specific purpose specific purpose in purpose in compliance in compliance with compliance with the with the law.
this prohibition should not prohibition should not affect should not affect lawful not affect lawful evaluation affect lawful evaluation practices lawful evaluation practices of evaluation practices of natural practices of natural persons of natural persons done natural persons done for persons done for one done for one or for one or more one or more specific or more specific purpose more specific purpose in specific purpose in compliance purpose in compliance with in compliance with the compliance with the law.
the use use of of ai ai systems systems for for ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification of of natural natural persons persons in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement is is considered considered particularly particularly intrusive intrusive in in the the rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of the the concerned concerned persons persons to to the the extent extent that that it it may may affect affect the the private private life life of of a a large large part part of of the the population population evoke evoke a a feeling feeling of of constant constant surveillance surveillance and and indirectly indirectly dissuade dissuade the the exercise exercise of of the the freedom freedom of of assembly assembly and and other other fundamental fundamental rights.
the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems for systems for ‘real-time’ for ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification of identification of natural of natural persons natural persons in persons in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement is enforcement is considered is considered particularly considered particularly intrusive particularly intrusive in intrusive in the in the rights the rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of the of the concerned the concerned persons concerned persons to persons to the to the extent the extent that extent that it that it may it may affect may affect the affect the private the private life private life of life of a of a large a large part large part of part of the of the population the population evoke population evoke a evoke a feeling a feeling of feeling of constant of constant surveillance constant surveillance and surveillance and indirectly and indirectly dissuade indirectly dissuade the dissuade the exercise the exercise of exercise of the of the freedom the freedom of freedom of assembly of assembly and assembly and other and other fundamental other fundamental rights.
the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems for ai systems for ‘real-time’ systems for ‘real-time’ remote for ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification of biometric identification of natural identification of natural persons of natural persons in natural persons in publicly persons in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement is law enforcement is considered enforcement is considered particularly is considered particularly intrusive considered particularly intrusive in particularly intrusive in the intrusive in the rights in the rights and the rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of the freedoms of the concerned of the concerned persons the concerned persons to concerned persons to the persons to the extent to the extent that the extent that it extent that it may that it may affect it may affect the may affect the private affect the private life the private life of private life of a life of a large of a large part a large part of large part of the part of the population of the population evoke the population evoke a population evoke a feeling evoke a feeling of a feeling of constant feeling of constant surveillance of constant surveillance and constant surveillance and indirectly surveillance and indirectly dissuade and indirectly dissuade the indirectly dissuade the exercise dissuade the exercise of the exercise of the exercise of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of assembly freedom of assembly and of assembly and other assembly and other fundamental and other fundamental rights.
in addition addition the the immediacy immediacy of of the the impact impact and and the the limited limited opportunities opportunities for for further further checks checks or or corrections corrections in in relation relation to to the the use use of of such such systems systems operating operating in in ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ carry carry heightened heightened risks risks for for the the rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of the the persons persons that that are are concerned concerned by by law law enforcement enforcement activities.
in addition the addition the immediacy the immediacy of immediacy of the of the impact the impact and impact and the and the limited the limited opportunities limited opportunities for opportunities for further for further checks further checks or checks or corrections or corrections in corrections in relation in relation to relation to the to the use the use of use of such of such systems such systems operating systems operating in operating in ‘real-time’ in ‘real-time’ carry ‘real-time’ carry heightened carry heightened risks heightened risks for risks for the for the rights the rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of the of the persons the persons that persons that are that are concerned are concerned by concerned by law by law enforcement law enforcement activities.
in addition the immediacy addition the immediacy of the immediacy of the immediacy of the impact of the impact and the impact and the impact and the limited and the limited opportunities the limited opportunities for limited opportunities for further opportunities for further checks for further checks or further checks or corrections checks or corrections in or corrections in relation corrections in relation to in relation to the relation to the use to the use of the use of such use of such systems of such systems operating such systems operating in systems operating in ‘real-time’ operating in ‘real-time’ carry in ‘real-time’ carry heightened ‘real-time’ carry heightened risks carry heightened risks for heightened risks for the risks for the rights for the rights and the rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of the freedoms of the persons of the persons that the persons that are persons that are concerned that are concerned by are concerned by law concerned by law enforcement by law enforcement activities.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the use use of of those those systems systems for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement should should therefore therefore be be prohibited prohibited except except in in exhaustively exhaustively listed listed and and narrowly narrowly defined defined situations situations where where the the use use is is strictly strictly necessary necessary to to achieve achieve a a substantial substantial public public interest interest the the importance importance of of which which outweighs outweighs the the risks.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the use the use of use of those of those systems those systems for systems for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement should enforcement should therefore should therefore be therefore be prohibited be prohibited except prohibited except in except in exhaustively in exhaustively listed exhaustively listed and listed and narrowly and narrowly defined narrowly defined situations defined situations where situations where the where the use the use is use is strictly is strictly necessary strictly necessary to necessary to achieve to achieve a achieve a substantial a substantial public substantial public interest public interest the interest the importance the importance of importance of which of which outweighs which outweighs the outweighs the risks.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the use en the use of the use of those use of those systems of those systems for those systems for the systems for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement should law enforcement should therefore enforcement should therefore be should therefore be prohibited therefore be prohibited except be prohibited except in prohibited except in exhaustively except in exhaustively listed in exhaustively listed and exhaustively listed and narrowly listed and narrowly defined and narrowly defined situations narrowly defined situations where defined situations where the situations where the use where the use is the use is strictly use is strictly necessary is strictly necessary to strictly necessary to achieve necessary to achieve a to achieve a substantial achieve a substantial public a substantial public interest substantial public interest the public interest the importance interest the importance of the importance of which importance of which outweighs of which outweighs the which outweighs the risks.
those situations situations involve involve the the search search for for potential potential victims victims of of crime crime including including missing missing children children certain certain threats threats to to the the life life or or physical physical safety safety of of natural natural persons persons or or of of a a terrorist terrorist attack attack and and the the detection detection localisation localisation identification identification or or prosecution prosecution of of perpetrators perpetrators or or suspects suspects of of the the criminal criminal offences offences referred referred to to in in council council framework framework decision decision jha jha if if those those criminal criminal offences offences are are punishable punishable in in the the member member state state concerned concerned by by a a custodial custodial sentence sentence or or a a detention detention order order for for a a maximum maximum period period of of at at least least three three years years and and as as they they are are defined defined in in the the law law of of that that member member state.
those situations involve situations involve the involve the search the search for search for potential for potential victims potential victims of victims of crime of crime including crime including missing including missing children missing children certain children certain threats certain threats to threats to the to the life the life or life or physical or physical safety physical safety of safety of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or of or of a of a terrorist a terrorist attack terrorist attack and attack and the and the detection the detection localisation detection localisation identification localisation identification or identification or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of perpetrators of perpetrators or perpetrators or suspects or suspects of suspects of the of the criminal the criminal offences criminal offences referred offences referred to referred to in to in council in council framework council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha if jha if those if those criminal those criminal offences criminal offences are offences are punishable are punishable in punishable in the in the member the member state member state concerned state concerned by concerned by a by a custodial a custodial sentence custodial sentence or sentence or a or a detention a detention order detention order for order for a for a maximum a maximum period maximum period of period of at of at least at least three least three years three years and years and as and as they as they are they are defined are defined in defined in the in the law the law of law of that of that member that member state.
those situations involve the situations involve the search involve the search for the search for potential search for potential victims for potential victims of potential victims of crime victims of crime including of crime including missing crime including missing children including missing children certain missing children certain threats children certain threats to certain threats to the threats to the life to the life or the life or physical life or physical safety or physical safety of physical safety of natural safety of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or of persons or of a or of a terrorist of a terrorist attack a terrorist attack and terrorist attack and the attack and the detection and the detection localisation the detection localisation identification detection localisation identification or localisation identification or prosecution identification or prosecution of or prosecution of perpetrators prosecution of perpetrators or of perpetrators or suspects perpetrators or suspects of or suspects of the suspects of the criminal of the criminal offences the criminal offences referred criminal offences referred to offences referred to in referred to in council to in council framework in council framework decision council framework decision jha framework decision jha if decision jha if those jha if those criminal if those criminal offences those criminal offences are criminal offences are punishable offences are punishable in are punishable in the punishable in the member in the member state the member state concerned member state concerned by state concerned by a concerned by a custodial by a custodial sentence a custodial sentence or custodial sentence or a sentence or a detention or a detention order a detention order for detention order for a order for a maximum for a maximum period a maximum period of maximum period of at period of at least of at least three at least three years least three years and three years and as years and as they and as they are as they are defined they are defined in are defined in the defined in the law in the law of the law of that law of that member of that member state.
such threshold threshold for for the the custodial custodial sentence sentence or or detention detention order order in in accordance accordance with with national national law law contributes contributes to to ensure ensure that that the the offence offence should should be be serious serious enough enough to to potentially potentially justify justify the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems.
such threshold for threshold for the for the custodial the custodial sentence custodial sentence or sentence or detention or detention order detention order in order in accordance in accordance with accordance with national with national law national law contributes law contributes to contributes to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the offence the offence should offence should be should be serious be serious enough serious enough to enough to potentially to potentially justify potentially justify the justify the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems.
such threshold for the threshold for the custodial for the custodial sentence the custodial sentence or custodial sentence or detention sentence or detention order or detention order in detention order in accordance order in accordance with in accordance with national accordance with national law with national law contributes national law contributes to law contributes to ensure contributes to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the offence that the offence should the offence should be offence should be serious should be serious enough be serious enough to serious enough to potentially enough to potentially justify to potentially justify the potentially justify the use justify the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems.
moreover of of the the criminal criminal offences offences listed listed in in the the council council framework framework decision decision jha jha some some are are in in practice practice likely likely to to be be more more relevant relevant than than others others in in that that the the recourse recourse to to ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification will will foreseeably foreseeably be be necessary necessary and and proportionate proportionate to to highly highly varying varying degrees degrees for for the the practical practical pursuit pursuit of of the the detection detection localisation localisation identification identification or or prosecution prosecution of of a a perpetrator perpetrator or or suspect suspect of of the the different different criminal criminal offences offences listed listed and and having having regard regard to to the the likely likely differences differences in in the the seriousness seriousness probability probability and and scale scale of of the the harm harm or or possible possible negative negative consequences.
moreover of the of the criminal the criminal offences criminal offences listed offences listed in listed in the in the council the council framework council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha some jha some are some are in are in practice in practice likely practice likely to likely to be to be more be more relevant more relevant than relevant than others than others in others in that in that the that the recourse the recourse to recourse to ‘real-time’ to ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification will identification will foreseeably will foreseeably be foreseeably be necessary be necessary and necessary and proportionate and proportionate to proportionate to highly to highly varying highly varying degrees varying degrees for degrees for the for the practical the practical pursuit practical pursuit of pursuit of the of the detection the detection localisation detection localisation identification localisation identification or identification or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of a of a perpetrator a perpetrator or perpetrator or suspect or suspect of suspect of the of the different the different criminal different criminal offences criminal offences listed offences listed and listed and having and having regard having regard to regard to the to the likely the likely differences likely differences in differences in the in the seriousness the seriousness probability seriousness probability and probability and scale and scale of scale of the of the harm the harm or harm or possible or possible negative possible negative consequences.
moreover of the criminal of the criminal offences the criminal offences listed criminal offences listed in offences listed in the listed in the council in the council framework the council framework decision council framework decision jha framework decision jha some decision jha some are jha some are in some are in practice are in practice likely in practice likely to practice likely to be likely to be more to be more relevant be more relevant than more relevant than others relevant than others in than others in that others in that the in that the recourse that the recourse to the recourse to ‘real-time’ recourse to ‘real-time’ remote to ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification will biometric identification will foreseeably identification will foreseeably be will foreseeably be necessary foreseeably be necessary and be necessary and proportionate necessary and proportionate to and proportionate to highly proportionate to highly varying to highly varying degrees highly varying degrees for varying degrees for the degrees for the practical for the practical pursuit the practical pursuit of practical pursuit of the pursuit of the detection of the detection localisation the detection localisation identification detection localisation identification or localisation identification or prosecution identification or prosecution of or prosecution of a prosecution of a perpetrator of a perpetrator or a perpetrator or suspect perpetrator or suspect of or suspect of the suspect of the different of the different criminal the different criminal offences different criminal offences listed criminal offences listed and offences listed and having listed and having regard and having regard to having regard to the regard to the likely to the likely differences the likely differences in likely differences in the differences in the seriousness in the seriousness probability the seriousness probability and seriousness probability and scale probability and scale of and scale of the scale of the harm of the harm or the harm or possible harm or possible negative or possible negative consequences.
in addition addition this this regulation regulation should should preserve preserve the the ability ability for for law law enforcement enforcement border border control control immigration immigration or or asylum asylum authorities authorities to to carry carry out out identity identity checks checks in in the the presence presence of of the the person person that that is is concerned concerned in in accordance accordance with with the the conditions conditions set set out out in in union union and and national national law law for for such such checks.
in addition this addition this regulation this regulation should regulation should preserve should preserve the preserve the ability the ability for ability for law for law enforcement law enforcement border enforcement border control border control immigration control immigration or immigration or asylum or asylum authorities asylum authorities to authorities to carry to carry out carry out identity out identity checks identity checks in checks in the in the presence the presence of presence of the of the person the person that person that is that is concerned is concerned in concerned in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the conditions the conditions set conditions set out set out in out in union in union and union and national and national law national law for law for such for such checks.
in addition this regulation addition this regulation should this regulation should preserve regulation should preserve the should preserve the ability preserve the ability for the ability for law ability for law enforcement for law enforcement border law enforcement border control enforcement border control immigration border control immigration or control immigration or asylum immigration or asylum authorities or asylum authorities to asylum authorities to carry authorities to carry out to carry out identity carry out identity checks out identity checks in identity checks in the checks in the presence in the presence of the presence of the presence of the person of the person that the person that is person that is concerned that is concerned in is concerned in accordance concerned in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the conditions with the conditions set the conditions set out conditions set out in set out in union out in union and in union and national union and national law and national law for national law for such law for such checks.
in particular particular law law enforcement enforcement border border control control immigration immigration or or asylum asylum authorities authorities should should be be able able to to use use information information systems systems in in accordance accordance with with union union or or national national law law to to identify identify a a person person who who during during an an identity identity check check either either refuses refuses to to be be identified identified or or is is unable unable to to state state or or prove prove his his or or her her identity identity without without being being required required by by this this regulation regulation to to obtain obtain prior prior authorisation.
in particular law particular law enforcement law enforcement border enforcement border control border control immigration control immigration or immigration or asylum or asylum authorities asylum authorities should authorities should be should be able be able to able to use to use information use information systems information systems in systems in accordance in accordance with accordance with union with union or union or national or national law national law to law to identify to identify a identify a person a person who person who during who during an during an identity an identity check identity check either check either refuses either refuses to refuses to be to be identified be identified or identified or is or is unable is unable to unable to state to state or state or prove or prove his prove his or his or her or her identity her identity without identity without being without being required being required by required by this by this regulation this regulation to regulation to obtain to obtain prior obtain prior authorisation.
in particular law enforcement particular law enforcement border law enforcement border control enforcement border control immigration border control immigration or control immigration or asylum immigration or asylum authorities or asylum authorities should asylum authorities should be authorities should be able should be able to be able to use able to use information to use information systems use information systems in information systems in accordance systems in accordance with in accordance with union accordance with union or with union or national union or national law or national law to national law to identify law to identify a to identify a person identify a person who a person who during person who during an who during an identity during an identity check an identity check either identity check either refuses check either refuses to either refuses to be refuses to be identified to be identified or be identified or is identified or is unable or is unable to is unable to state unable to state or to state or prove state or prove his or prove his or prove his or her his or her identity or her identity without her identity without being identity without being required without being required by being required by this required by this regulation by this regulation to this regulation to obtain regulation to obtain prior to obtain prior authorisation.
this could could be be for for example example a a person person involved involved in in a a crime crime being being unwilling unwilling or or unable unable due due to to an an accident accident or or a a medical medical condition condition to to disclose disclose their their identity identity to to law law enforcement enforcement authorities.
this could be could be for be for example for example a example a person a person involved person involved in involved in a in a crime a crime being crime being unwilling being unwilling or unwilling or unable or unable due unable due to due to an to an accident an accident or accident or a or a medical a medical condition medical condition to condition to disclose to disclose their disclose their identity their identity to identity to law to law enforcement law enforcement authorities.
this could be for could be for example be for example a for example a person example a person involved a person involved in person involved in a involved in a crime in a crime being a crime being unwilling crime being unwilling or being unwilling or unable unwilling or unable due or unable due to unable due to an due to an accident to an accident or an accident or a accident or a medical or a medical condition a medical condition to medical condition to disclose condition to disclose their to disclose their identity disclose their identity to their identity to law identity to law enforcement to law enforcement authorities.
council framework framework decision decision jha jha of of june june on on the the european european arrest arrest warrant warrant and and the the surrender surrender procedures procedures between between member member states states oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha of jha of june of june on june on the on the european the european arrest european arrest warrant arrest warrant and warrant and the and the surrender the surrender procedures surrender procedures between procedures between member between member states member states oj states oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
council framework decision jha framework decision jha of decision jha of june jha of june on of june on the june on the european on the european arrest the european arrest warrant european arrest warrant and arrest warrant and the warrant and the surrender and the surrender procedures the surrender procedures between surrender procedures between member procedures between member states between member states oj member states oj l states oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to ensure ensure that that those those systems systems are are used used in in a a responsible responsible and and proportionate proportionate manner manner it it is is also also important important to to establish establish that that in in each each of of those those exhaustively exhaustively listed listed and and narrowly narrowly defined defined situations situations certain certain elements elements should should be be taken taken into into account account in in particular particular as as regards regards the the nature nature of of the the situation situation giving giving rise rise to to the the request request and and the the consequences consequences of of the the use use for for the the rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of all all persons persons concerned concerned and and the the safeguards safeguards and and conditions conditions provided provided for for with with the the use.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to ensure to ensure that ensure that those that those systems those systems are systems are used are used in used in a in a responsible a responsible and responsible and proportionate and proportionate manner proportionate manner it manner it is it is also is also important also important to important to establish to establish that establish that in that in each in each of each of those of those exhaustively those exhaustively listed exhaustively listed and listed and narrowly and narrowly defined narrowly defined situations defined situations certain situations certain elements certain elements should elements should be should be taken be taken into taken into account into account in account in particular in particular as particular as regards as regards the regards the nature the nature of nature of the of the situation the situation giving situation giving rise giving rise to rise to the to the request the request and request and the and the consequences the consequences of consequences of the of the use the use for use for the for the rights the rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of all of all persons all persons concerned persons concerned and concerned and the and the safeguards the safeguards and safeguards and conditions and conditions provided conditions provided for provided for with for with the with the use.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to ensure order to ensure that to ensure that those ensure that those systems that those systems are those systems are used systems are used in are used in a used in a responsible in a responsible and a responsible and proportionate responsible and proportionate manner and proportionate manner it proportionate manner it is manner it is also it is also important is also important to also important to establish important to establish that to establish that in establish that in each that in each of in each of those each of those exhaustively of those exhaustively listed those exhaustively listed and exhaustively listed and narrowly listed and narrowly defined and narrowly defined situations narrowly defined situations certain defined situations certain elements situations certain elements should certain elements should be elements should be taken should be taken into be taken into account taken into account in into account in particular account in particular as in particular as regards particular as regards the as regards the nature regards the nature of the nature of the nature of the situation of the situation giving the situation giving rise situation giving rise to giving rise to the rise to the request to the request and the request and the request and the consequences and the consequences of the consequences of the consequences of the use of the use for the use for the use for the rights for the rights and the rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of all freedoms of all persons of all persons concerned all persons concerned and persons concerned and the concerned and the safeguards and the safeguards and the safeguards and conditions safeguards and conditions provided and conditions provided for conditions provided for with provided for with the for with the use.
in addition addition the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement should should be be subject subject to to appropriate appropriate limits limits in in time time and and space space having having regard regard in in particular particular to to the the evidence evidence or or indications indications regarding regarding the the threats threats the the victims victims or or perpetrator.
in addition the addition the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement should enforcement should be should be subject be subject to subject to appropriate to appropriate limits appropriate limits in limits in time in time and time and space and space having space having regard having regard in regard in particular in particular to particular to the to the evidence the evidence or evidence or indications or indications regarding indications regarding the regarding the threats the threats the threats the victims the victims or victims or perpetrator.
in addition the use addition the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement should law enforcement should be enforcement should be subject should be subject to be subject to appropriate subject to appropriate limits to appropriate limits in appropriate limits in time limits in time and in time and space time and space having and space having regard space having regard in having regard in particular regard in particular to in particular to the particular to the evidence to the evidence or the evidence or indications evidence or indications regarding or indications regarding the indications regarding the threats regarding the threats the the threats the victims threats the victims or the victims or perpetrator.
the reference reference database database of of persons persons should should be be appropriate appropriate for for each each use use case case in in each each of of the the situations situations mentioned mentioned above.
the reference database reference database of database of persons of persons should persons should be should be appropriate be appropriate for appropriate for each for each use each use case use case in case in each in each of each of the of the situations the situations mentioned situations mentioned above.
the reference database of reference database of persons database of persons should of persons should be persons should be appropriate should be appropriate for be appropriate for each appropriate for each use for each use case each use case in use case in each case in each of in each of the each of the situations of the situations mentioned the situations mentioned above.
each use use of of a a ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system system in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement should should be be subject subject to to an an express express and and specific specific authorisation authorisation by by a a judicial judicial authority authority or or by by an an independent independent administrative administrative authority authority of of a a member member state.
each use of use of a of a ‘real-time’ a ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system identification system in system in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement should enforcement should be should be subject be subject to subject to an to an express an express and express and specific and specific authorisation specific authorisation by authorisation by a by a judicial a judicial authority judicial authority or authority or by or by an by an independent an independent administrative independent administrative authority administrative authority of authority of a of a member a member state.
each use of a use of a ‘real-time’ of a ‘real-time’ remote a ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system biometric identification system in identification system in publicly system in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement should law enforcement should be enforcement should be subject should be subject to be subject to an subject to an express to an express and an express and specific express and specific authorisation and specific authorisation by specific authorisation by a authorisation by a judicial by a judicial authority a judicial authority or judicial authority or by authority or by an or by an independent by an independent administrative an independent administrative authority independent administrative authority of administrative authority of a authority of a member of a member state.
such authorisation authorisation should should in in principle principle be be obtained obtained prior prior to to the the use use of of the the system system with with a a view view to to identify identify a a person person or or persons.
such authorisation should authorisation should in should in principle in principle be principle be obtained be obtained prior obtained prior to prior to the to the use the use of use of the of the system the system with system with a with a view a view to view to identify to identify a identify a person a person or person or persons.
such authorisation should in authorisation should in principle should in principle be in principle be obtained principle be obtained prior be obtained prior to obtained prior to the prior to the use to the use of the use of the use of the system of the system with the system with a system with a view with a view to a view to identify view to identify a to identify a person identify a person or a person or persons.
exceptions to to this this rule rule should should be be allowed allowed in in duly duly justified justified situations situations of of urgency urgency that that is is situations situations where where the the need need to to use use the the systems systems in in question question is is such such as as to to make make it it effectively effectively and and objectively objectively impossible impossible to to obtain obtain an an authorisation authorisation before before commencing commencing the the use.
exceptions to this to this rule this rule should rule should be should be allowed be allowed in allowed in duly in duly justified duly justified situations justified situations of situations of urgency of urgency that urgency that is that is situations is situations where situations where the where the need the need to need to use to use the use the systems the systems in systems in question in question is question is such is such as such as to as to make to make it make it effectively it effectively and effectively and objectively and objectively impossible objectively impossible to impossible to obtain to obtain an obtain an authorisation an authorisation before authorisation before commencing before commencing the commencing the use.
exceptions to this rule to this rule should this rule should be rule should be allowed should be allowed in be allowed in duly allowed in duly justified in duly justified situations duly justified situations of justified situations of urgency situations of urgency that of urgency that is urgency that is situations that is situations where is situations where the situations where the need where the need to the need to use need to use the to use the systems use the systems in the systems in question systems in question is in question is such question is such as is such as to such as to make as to make it to make it effectively make it effectively and it effectively and objectively effectively and objectively impossible and objectively impossible to objectively impossible to obtain impossible to obtain an to obtain an authorisation obtain an authorisation before an authorisation before commencing authorisation before commencing the before commencing the use.
in such such situations situations of of urgency urgency the the use use should should be be restricted restricted to to the the absolute absolute minimum minimum necessary necessary and and be be subject subject to to appropriate appropriate safeguards safeguards and and conditions conditions as as determined determined in in national national law law and and specified specified in in the the context context of of each each individual individual urgent urgent use use case case by by the the law law enforcement enforcement authority authority itself.
in such situations such situations of situations of urgency of urgency the urgency the use the use should use should be should be restricted be restricted to restricted to the to the absolute the absolute minimum absolute minimum necessary minimum necessary and necessary and be and be subject be subject to subject to appropriate to appropriate safeguards appropriate safeguards and safeguards and conditions and conditions as conditions as determined as determined in determined in national in national law national law and law and specified and specified in specified in the in the context the context of context of each of each individual each individual urgent individual urgent use urgent use case use case by case by the by the law the law enforcement law enforcement authority enforcement authority itself.
in such situations of such situations of urgency situations of urgency the of urgency the use urgency the use should the use should be use should be restricted should be restricted to be restricted to the restricted to the absolute to the absolute minimum the absolute minimum necessary absolute minimum necessary and minimum necessary and be necessary and be subject and be subject to be subject to appropriate subject to appropriate safeguards to appropriate safeguards and appropriate safeguards and conditions safeguards and conditions as and conditions as determined conditions as determined in as determined in national determined in national law in national law and national law and specified law and specified in and specified in the specified in the context in the context of the context of each context of each individual of each individual urgent each individual urgent use individual urgent use case urgent use case by use case by the case by the law by the law enforcement the law enforcement authority law enforcement authority itself.
in addition addition the the law law enforcement enforcement authority authority should should in in such such situations situations seek seek to to obtain obtain an an authorisation authorisation as as soon soon as as possible possible whilst whilst providing providing the the reasons reasons for for not not having having been been able able to to request request it it earlier.
in addition the addition the law the law enforcement law enforcement authority enforcement authority should authority should in should in such in such situations such situations seek situations seek to seek to obtain to obtain an obtain an authorisation an authorisation as authorisation as soon as soon as soon as possible as possible whilst possible whilst providing whilst providing the providing the reasons the reasons for reasons for not for not having not having been having been able been able to able to request to request it request it earlier.
in addition the law addition the law enforcement the law enforcement authority law enforcement authority should enforcement authority should in authority should in such should in such situations in such situations seek such situations seek to situations seek to obtain seek to obtain an to obtain an authorisation obtain an authorisation as an authorisation as soon authorisation as soon as as soon as possible soon as possible whilst as possible whilst providing possible whilst providing the whilst providing the reasons providing the reasons for the reasons for not reasons for not having for not having been not having been able having been able to been able to request able to request it to request it earlier.
tree..b rbek rbek en en furthermore furthermore it it is is appropriate appropriate to to provide provide within within the the exhaustive exhaustive framework framework set set by by this this regulation regulation that that such such use use in in the the territory territory of of a a member member state state in in accordance accordance with with this this regulation regulation should should only only be be possible possible where where and and in in as as far far as as the the member member state state in in question question has has decided decided to to expressly expressly provide provide for for the the possibility possibility to to authorise authorise such such use use in in its its detailed detailed rules rules of of national national law.
tree..b rbek en rbek en furthermore en furthermore it furthermore it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to provide to provide within provide within the within the exhaustive the exhaustive framework exhaustive framework set framework set by set by this by this regulation this regulation that regulation that such that such use such use in use in the in the territory the territory of territory of a of a member a member state member state in state in accordance in accordance with accordance with this with this regulation this regulation should regulation should only should only be only be possible be possible where possible where and where and in and in as in as far as far as far as the as the member the member state member state in state in question in question has question has decided has decided to decided to expressly to expressly provide expressly provide for provide for the for the possibility the possibility to possibility to authorise to authorise such authorise such use such use in use in its in its detailed its detailed rules detailed rules of rules of national of national law.
tree..b rbek en furthermore rbek en furthermore it en furthermore it is furthermore it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to provide appropriate to provide within to provide within the provide within the exhaustive within the exhaustive framework the exhaustive framework set exhaustive framework set by framework set by this set by this regulation by this regulation that this regulation that such regulation that such use that such use in such use in the use in the territory in the territory of the territory of a territory of a member of a member state a member state in member state in accordance state in accordance with in accordance with this accordance with this regulation with this regulation should this regulation should only regulation should only be should only be possible only be possible where be possible where and possible where and in where and in as and in as far in as far as as far as the far as the member as the member state the member state in member state in question state in question has in question has decided question has decided to has decided to expressly decided to expressly provide to expressly provide for expressly provide for the provide for the possibility for the possibility to the possibility to authorise possibility to authorise such to authorise such use authorise such use in such use in its use in its detailed in its detailed rules its detailed rules of detailed rules of national rules of national law.
consequently member member states states remain remain free free under under this this regulation regulation not not to to provide provide for for such such a a possibility possibility at at all all or or to to only only provide provide for for such such a a possibility possibility in in respect respect of of some some of of the the objectives objectives capable capable of of justifying justifying authorised authorised use use identified identified in in this this regulation.
consequently member states member states remain states remain free remain free under free under this under this regulation this regulation not regulation not to not to provide to provide for provide for such for such a such a possibility a possibility at possibility at all at all or all or to or to only to only provide only provide for provide for such for such a such a possibility a possibility in possibility in respect in respect of respect of some of some of some of the of the objectives the objectives capable objectives capable of capable of justifying of justifying authorised justifying authorised use authorised use identified use identified in identified in this in this regulation.
consequently member states remain member states remain free states remain free under remain free under this free under this regulation under this regulation not this regulation not to regulation not to provide not to provide for to provide for such provide for such a for such a possibility such a possibility at a possibility at all possibility at all or at all or to all or to only or to only provide to only provide for only provide for such provide for such a for such a possibility such a possibility in a possibility in respect possibility in respect of in respect of some respect of some of of some of the some of the objectives of the objectives capable the objectives capable of objectives capable of justifying capable of justifying authorised of justifying authorised use justifying authorised use identified authorised use identified in use identified in this identified in this regulation.
the use use of of ai ai systems systems for for ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification of of natural natural persons persons in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement necessarily necessarily involves involves the the processing processing of of biometric biometric data.
the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems for systems for ‘real-time’ for ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification of identification of natural of natural persons natural persons in persons in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement necessarily enforcement necessarily involves necessarily involves the involves the processing the processing of processing of biometric of biometric data.
the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems for ai systems for ‘real-time’ systems for ‘real-time’ remote for ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification of biometric identification of natural identification of natural persons of natural persons in natural persons in publicly persons in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement necessarily law enforcement necessarily involves enforcement necessarily involves the necessarily involves the processing involves the processing of the processing of biometric processing of biometric data.
the rules rules of of this this regulation regulation that that prohibit prohibit subject subject to to certain certain exceptions exceptions such such use use which which are are based based on on article article tfeu tfeu should should apply apply as as lex lex specialis specialis in in respect respect of of the the rules rules on on the the processing processing of of biometric biometric data data contained contained in in article article of of directive directive eu eu thus thus regulating regulating such such use use and and the the processing processing of of biometric biometric data data involved involved in in an an exhaustive exhaustive manner.
the rules of rules of this of this regulation this regulation that regulation that prohibit that prohibit subject prohibit subject to subject to certain to certain exceptions certain exceptions such exceptions such use such use which use which are which are based are based on based on article on article tfeu article tfeu should tfeu should apply should apply as apply as lex as lex specialis lex specialis in specialis in respect in respect of respect of the of the rules the rules on rules on the on the processing the processing of processing of biometric of biometric data biometric data contained data contained in contained in article in article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu thus eu thus regulating thus regulating such regulating such use such use and use and the and the processing the processing of processing of biometric of biometric data biometric data involved data involved in involved in an in an exhaustive an exhaustive manner.
the rules of this rules of this regulation of this regulation that this regulation that prohibit regulation that prohibit subject that prohibit subject to prohibit subject to certain subject to certain exceptions to certain exceptions such certain exceptions such use exceptions such use which such use which are use which are based which are based on are based on article based on article tfeu on article tfeu should article tfeu should apply tfeu should apply as should apply as lex apply as lex specialis as lex specialis in lex specialis in respect specialis in respect of in respect of the respect of the rules of the rules on the rules on the rules on the processing on the processing of the processing of biometric processing of biometric data of biometric data contained biometric data contained in data contained in article contained in article of in article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu thus directive eu thus regulating eu thus regulating such thus regulating such use regulating such use and such use and the use and the processing and the processing of the processing of biometric processing of biometric data of biometric data involved biometric data involved in data involved in an involved in an exhaustive in an exhaustive manner.
therefore such such use use and and processing processing should should only only be be possible possible in in as as far far as as it it is is compatible compatible with with the the framework framework set set by by this this regulation regulation without without there there being being scope scope outside outside that that framework framework for for the the competent competent authorities authorities where where they they act act for for purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement to to use use such such systems systems and and process process such such data data in in connection connection thereto thereto on on the the grounds grounds listed listed in in article article of of directive directive eu eu .
therefore such use such use and use and processing and processing should processing should only should only be only be possible be possible in possible in as in as far as far as far as it as it is it is compatible is compatible with compatible with the with the framework the framework set framework set by set by this by this regulation this regulation without regulation without there without there being there being scope being scope outside scope outside that outside that framework that framework for framework for the for the competent the competent authorities competent authorities where authorities where they where they act they act for act for purpose for purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement to enforcement to use to use such use such systems such systems and systems and process and process such process such data such data in data in connection in connection thereto connection thereto on thereto on the on the grounds the grounds listed grounds listed in listed in article in article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu .
therefore such use and such use and processing use and processing should and processing should only processing should only be should only be possible only be possible in be possible in as possible in as far in as far as as far as it far as it is as it is compatible it is compatible with is compatible with the compatible with the framework with the framework set the framework set by framework set by this set by this regulation by this regulation without this regulation without there regulation without there being without there being scope there being scope outside being scope outside that scope outside that framework outside that framework for that framework for the framework for the competent for the competent authorities the competent authorities where competent authorities where they authorities where they act where they act for they act for purpose act for purpose of for purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement to law enforcement to use enforcement to use such to use such systems use such systems and such systems and process systems and process such and process such data process such data in such data in connection data in connection thereto in connection thereto on connection thereto on the thereto on the grounds on the grounds listed the grounds listed in grounds listed in article listed in article of in article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu .
in this this context context this this regulation regulation is is not not intended intended to to provide provide the the legal legal basis basis for for the the processing processing of of personal personal data data under under article article of of directive directive .
in this context this context this context this regulation this regulation is regulation is not is not intended not intended to intended to provide to provide the provide the legal the legal basis legal basis for basis for the for the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data under data under article under article of article of directive of directive .
in this context this this context this regulation context this regulation is this regulation is not regulation is not intended is not intended to not intended to provide intended to provide the to provide the legal provide the legal basis the legal basis for legal basis for the basis for the processing for the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data under personal data under article data under article of under article of directive article of directive .
however the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for purposes purposes other other than than law law enforcement enforcement including including by by competent competent authorities authorities should should not not be be covered covered by by the the specific specific framework framework regarding regarding such such use use for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement set set by by this this regulation.
however the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for purposes for purposes other purposes other than other than law than law enforcement law enforcement including enforcement including by including by competent by competent authorities competent authorities should authorities should not should not be not be covered be covered by covered by the by the specific the specific framework specific framework regarding framework regarding such regarding such use such use for use for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement set enforcement set by set by this by this regulation.
however the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for purposes spaces for purposes other for purposes other than purposes other than law other than law enforcement than law enforcement including law enforcement including by enforcement including by competent including by competent authorities by competent authorities should competent authorities should not authorities should not be should not be covered not be covered by be covered by the covered by the specific by the specific framework the specific framework regarding specific framework regarding such framework regarding such use regarding such use for such use for the use for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement set law enforcement set by enforcement set by this set by this regulation.
such use use for for purposes purposes other other than than law law enforcement enforcement should should therefore therefore not not be be subject subject to to the the requirement requirement of of an an authorisation authorisation under under this this regulation regulation and and the the applicable applicable detailed detailed rules rules of of national national law law that that may may give give effect effect to to it.
such use for use for purposes for purposes other purposes other than other than law than law enforcement law enforcement should enforcement should therefore should therefore not therefore not be not be subject be subject to subject to the to the requirement the requirement of requirement of an of an authorisation an authorisation under authorisation under this under this regulation this regulation and regulation and the and the applicable the applicable detailed applicable detailed rules detailed rules of rules of national of national law national law that law that may that may give may give effect give effect to effect to it.
such use for purposes use for purposes other for purposes other than purposes other than law other than law enforcement than law enforcement should law enforcement should therefore enforcement should therefore not should therefore not be therefore not be subject not be subject to be subject to the subject to the requirement to the requirement of the requirement of an requirement of an authorisation of an authorisation under an authorisation under this authorisation under this regulation under this regulation and this regulation and the regulation and the applicable and the applicable detailed the applicable detailed rules applicable detailed rules of detailed rules of national rules of national law of national law that national law that may law that may give that may give effect may give effect to give effect to it.
tree..b rbek rbek en en any any processing processing of of biometric biometric data data and and other other personal personal data data involved involved in in the the use use of of ai ai systems systems for for biometric biometric identification identification other other than than in in connection connection to to the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement as as regulated regulated by by this this regulation regulation should should continue continue to to comply comply with with all all requirements requirements resulting resulting from from article article of of directive directive eu eu .
tree..b rbek en rbek en any en any processing any processing of processing of biometric of biometric data biometric data and data and other and other personal other personal data personal data involved data involved in involved in the in the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems for systems for biometric for biometric identification biometric identification other identification other than other than in than in connection in connection to connection to the to the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement as enforcement as regulated as regulated by regulated by this by this regulation this regulation should regulation should continue should continue to continue to comply to comply with comply with all with all requirements all requirements resulting requirements resulting from resulting from article from article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu .
tree..b rbek en any rbek en any processing en any processing of any processing of biometric processing of biometric data of biometric data and biometric data and other data and other personal and other personal data other personal data involved personal data involved in data involved in the involved in the use in the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems for ai systems for biometric systems for biometric identification for biometric identification other biometric identification other than identification other than in other than in connection than in connection to in connection to the connection to the use to the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement as law enforcement as regulated enforcement as regulated by as regulated by this regulated by this regulation by this regulation should this regulation should continue regulation should continue to should continue to comply continue to comply with to comply with all comply with all requirements with all requirements resulting all requirements resulting from requirements resulting from article resulting from article of from article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu .
for purposes purposes other other than than law law enforcement enforcement article article of of regulation regulation eu eu and and article article of of regulation regulation eu eu prohibit prohibit the the processing processing of of biometric biometric data data for for the the purpose purpose of of uniquely uniquely identifying identifying a a natural natural person person unless unless one one of of the the situations situations in in the the respective respective second second paragraphs paragraphs of of those those two two articles articles applies.
for purposes other purposes other than other than law than law enforcement law enforcement article enforcement article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and article and article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu prohibit eu prohibit the prohibit the processing the processing of processing of biometric of biometric data biometric data for data for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of uniquely of uniquely identifying uniquely identifying a identifying a natural a natural person natural person unless person unless one unless one of one of the of the situations the situations in situations in the in the respective the respective second respective second paragraphs second paragraphs of paragraphs of those of those two those two articles two articles applies.
for purposes other than purposes other than law other than law enforcement than law enforcement article law enforcement article of enforcement article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and article eu and article of and article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu prohibit regulation eu prohibit the eu prohibit the processing prohibit the processing of the processing of biometric processing of biometric data of biometric data for biometric data for the data for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of uniquely purpose of uniquely identifying of uniquely identifying a uniquely identifying a natural identifying a natural person a natural person unless natural person unless one person unless one of unless one of the one of the situations of the situations in the situations in the situations in the respective in the respective second the respective second paragraphs respective second paragraphs of second paragraphs of those paragraphs of those two of those two articles those two articles applies.
in accordance accordance with with article article a a of of protocol protocol no no on on the the position position of of the the united united kingdom kingdom and and ireland ireland in in respect respect of of the the area area of of freedom freedom security security and and justice justice as as annexed annexed to to the the teu teu and and to to the the tfeu tfeu ireland ireland is is not not bound bound by by the the rules rules laid laid down down in in article article point point d d and and of of this this regulation regulation adopted adopted on on the the basis basis of of article article of of the the tfeu tfeu which which relate relate to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data by by the the member member states states when when carrying carrying out out activities activities falling falling within within the the scope scope of of chapter chapter or or chapter chapter of of title title v v of of part part three three of of the the tfeu tfeu where where ireland ireland is is not not bound bound by by the the rules rules governing governing the the forms forms of of judicial judicial cooperation cooperation in in criminal criminal matters matters or or police police cooperation cooperation which which require require compliance compliance with with the the provisions provisions laid laid down down on on the the basis basis of of article article of of the the tfeu.
in accordance with accordance with article with article a article a of a of protocol of protocol no protocol no on no on the on the position the position of position of the of the united the united kingdom united kingdom and kingdom and ireland and ireland in ireland in respect in respect of respect of the of the area the area of area of freedom of freedom security freedom security and security and justice and justice as justice as annexed as annexed to annexed to the to the teu the teu and teu and to and to the to the tfeu the tfeu ireland tfeu ireland is ireland is not is not bound not bound by bound by the by the rules the rules laid rules laid down laid down in down in article in article point article point d point d and d and of and of this of this regulation this regulation adopted regulation adopted on adopted on the on the basis the basis of basis of article of article of article of the of the tfeu the tfeu which tfeu which relate which relate to relate to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data by data by the by the member the member states member states when states when carrying when carrying out carrying out activities out activities falling activities falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of chapter of chapter or chapter or chapter or chapter of chapter of title of title v title v of v of part of part three part three of three of the of the tfeu the tfeu where tfeu where ireland where ireland is ireland is not is not bound not bound by bound by the by the rules the rules governing rules governing the governing the forms the forms of forms of judicial of judicial cooperation judicial cooperation in cooperation in criminal in criminal matters criminal matters or matters or police or police cooperation police cooperation which cooperation which require which require compliance require compliance with compliance with the with the provisions the provisions laid provisions laid down laid down on down on the on the basis the basis of basis of article of article of article of the of the tfeu.
in accordance with article accordance with article a with article a of article a of protocol a of protocol no of protocol no on protocol no on the no on the position on the position of the position of the position of the united of the united kingdom the united kingdom and united kingdom and ireland kingdom and ireland in and ireland in respect ireland in respect of in respect of the respect of the area of the area of the area of freedom area of freedom security of freedom security and freedom security and justice security and justice as and justice as annexed justice as annexed to as annexed to the annexed to the teu to the teu and the teu and to teu and to the and to the tfeu to the tfeu ireland the tfeu ireland is tfeu ireland is not ireland is not bound is not bound by not bound by the bound by the rules by the rules laid the rules laid down rules laid down in laid down in article down in article point in article point d article point d and point d and of d and of this and of this regulation of this regulation adopted this regulation adopted on regulation adopted on the adopted on the basis on the basis of the basis of article basis of article of of article of the article of the tfeu of the tfeu which the tfeu which relate tfeu which relate to which relate to the relate to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data by personal data by the data by the member by the member states the member states when member states when carrying states when carrying out when carrying out activities carrying out activities falling out activities falling within activities falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of chapter scope of chapter or of chapter or chapter chapter or chapter of or chapter of title chapter of title v of title v of title v of part v of part three of part three of part three of the three of the tfeu of the tfeu where the tfeu where ireland tfeu where ireland is where ireland is not ireland is not bound is not bound by not bound by the bound by the rules by the rules governing the rules governing the rules governing the forms governing the forms of the forms of judicial forms of judicial cooperation of judicial cooperation in judicial cooperation in criminal cooperation in criminal matters in criminal matters or criminal matters or police matters or police cooperation or police cooperation which police cooperation which require cooperation which require compliance which require compliance with require compliance with the compliance with the provisions with the provisions laid the provisions laid down provisions laid down on laid down on the down on the basis on the basis of the basis of article basis of article of of article of the article of the tfeu.
in accordance accordance with with articles articles and and a a of of protocol protocol no no on on the the position position of of denmark denmark annexed annexed to to the the teu teu and and tfeu tfeu denmark denmark is is not not bound bound by by rules rules laid laid down down in in article article point point d d and and of of this this regulation regulation adopted adopted on on the the basis basis of of article article of of the the tfeu tfeu or or subject subject to to their their application application which which relate relate to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data by by the the member member states states when when carrying carrying out out activities activities falling falling within within the the scope scope of of chapter chapter or or chapter chapter of of title title v v of of part part three three of of the the tfeu.
in accordance with accordance with articles with articles and articles and a and a of a of protocol of protocol no protocol no on no on the on the position the position of position of denmark of denmark annexed denmark annexed to annexed to the to the teu the teu and teu and tfeu and tfeu denmark tfeu denmark is denmark is not is not bound not bound by bound by rules by rules laid rules laid down laid down in down in article in article point article point d point d and d and of and of this of this regulation this regulation adopted regulation adopted on adopted on the on the basis the basis of basis of article of article of article of the of the tfeu the tfeu or tfeu or subject or subject to subject to their to their application their application which application which relate which relate to relate to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data by data by the by the member the member states member states when states when carrying when carrying out carrying out activities out activities falling activities falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of chapter of chapter or chapter or chapter or chapter of chapter of title of title v title v of v of part of part three part three of three of the of the tfeu.
in accordance with articles accordance with articles and with articles and a articles and a of and a of protocol a of protocol no of protocol no on protocol no on the no on the position on the position of the position of denmark position of denmark annexed of denmark annexed to denmark annexed to the annexed to the teu to the teu and the teu and tfeu teu and tfeu denmark and tfeu denmark is tfeu denmark is not denmark is not bound is not bound by not bound by rules bound by rules laid by rules laid down rules laid down in laid down in article down in article point in article point d article point d and point d and of d and of this and of this regulation of this regulation adopted this regulation adopted on regulation adopted on the adopted on the basis on the basis of the basis of article basis of article of of article of the article of the tfeu of the tfeu or the tfeu or subject tfeu or subject to or subject to their subject to their application to their application which their application which relate application which relate to which relate to the relate to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data by personal data by the data by the member by the member states the member states when member states when carrying states when carrying out when carrying out activities carrying out activities falling out activities falling within activities falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of chapter scope of chapter or of chapter or chapter chapter or chapter of or chapter of title chapter of title v of title v of title v of part v of part three of part three of part three of the three of the tfeu.
tree..b rbek rbek en en high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems should should only only be be placed placed on on the the union union market market or or put put into into service service if if they they comply comply with with certain certain mandatory mandatory requirements.
tree..b rbek en rbek en high-risk en high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should only should only be only be placed be placed on placed on the on the union the union market union market or market or put or put into put into service into service if service if they if they comply they comply with comply with certain with certain mandatory certain mandatory requirements.
tree..b rbek en high-risk rbek en high-risk ai en high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems should ai systems should only systems should only be should only be placed only be placed on be placed on the placed on the union on the union market the union market or union market or put market or put into or put into service put into service if into service if they service if they comply if they comply with they comply with certain comply with certain mandatory with certain mandatory requirements.
those requirements requirements should should ensure ensure that that high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems available available in in the the union union or or whose whose output output is is otherwise otherwise used used in in the the union union do do not not pose pose unacceptable unacceptable risks risks to to important important union union public public interests interests as as recognised recognised and and protected protected by by union union law.
those requirements should requirements should ensure should ensure that ensure that high-risk that high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems available systems available in available in the in the union the union or union or whose or whose output whose output is output is otherwise is otherwise used otherwise used in used in the in the union the union do union do not do not pose not pose unacceptable pose unacceptable risks unacceptable risks to risks to important to important union important union public union public interests public interests as interests as recognised as recognised and recognised and protected and protected by protected by union by union law.
those requirements should ensure requirements should ensure that should ensure that high-risk ensure that high-risk ai that high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems available ai systems available in systems available in the available in the union in the union or the union or whose union or whose output or whose output is whose output is otherwise output is otherwise used is otherwise used in otherwise used in the used in the union in the union do the union do not union do not pose do not pose unacceptable not pose unacceptable risks pose unacceptable risks to unacceptable risks to important risks to important union to important union public important union public interests union public interests as public interests as recognised interests as recognised and as recognised and protected recognised and protected by and protected by union protected by union law.
ai systems systems identified identified as as high-risk high-risk should should be be limited limited to to those those that that have have a a significant significant harmful harmful impact impact on on the the health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights of of persons persons in in the the union union and and such such limitation limitation minimises minimises any any potential potential restriction restriction to to international international trade trade if if any.
ai systems identified systems identified as identified as high-risk as high-risk should high-risk should be should be limited be limited to limited to those to those that those that have that have a have a significant a significant harmful significant harmful impact harmful impact on impact on the on the health the health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of persons of persons in persons in the in the union the union and union and such and such limitation such limitation minimises limitation minimises any minimises any potential any potential restriction potential restriction to restriction to international to international trade international trade if trade if any.
ai systems identified as systems identified as high-risk identified as high-risk should as high-risk should be high-risk should be limited should be limited to be limited to those limited to those that to those that have those that have a that have a significant have a significant harmful a significant harmful impact significant harmful impact on harmful impact on the impact on the health on the health safety the health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights of fundamental rights of persons rights of persons in of persons in the persons in the union in the union and the union and such union and such limitation and such limitation minimises such limitation minimises any limitation minimises any potential minimises any potential restriction any potential restriction to potential restriction to international restriction to international trade to international trade if international trade if any.
tree..b rbek rbek en en ai ai systems systems could could produce produce adverse adverse outcomes outcomes to to health health and and safety safety of of persons persons in in particular particular when when such such systems systems operate operate as as components components of of products.
tree..b rbek en rbek en ai en ai systems ai systems could systems could produce could produce adverse produce adverse outcomes adverse outcomes to outcomes to health to health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons of persons in persons in particular in particular when particular when such when such systems such systems operate systems operate as operate as components as components of components of products.
tree..b rbek en ai rbek en ai systems en ai systems could ai systems could produce systems could produce adverse could produce adverse outcomes produce adverse outcomes to adverse outcomes to health outcomes to health and to health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons safety of persons in of persons in particular persons in particular when in particular when such particular when such systems when such systems operate such systems operate as systems operate as components operate as components of as components of products.
consistently with with the the objectives objectives of of union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation to to facilitate facilitate the the free free movement movement of of products products in in the the internal internal market market and and to to ensure ensure that that only only safe safe and and otherwise otherwise compliant compliant products products find find their their way way into into the the market market it it is is important important that that the the safety safety risks risks that that may may be be generated generated by by a a product product as as a a whole whole due due to to its its digital digital components components including including ai ai systems systems are are duly duly prevented prevented and and mitigated.
consistently with the with the objectives the objectives of objectives of union of union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation to legislation to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the free the free movement free movement of movement of products of products in products in the in the internal the internal market internal market and market and to and to ensure to ensure that ensure that only that only safe only safe and safe and otherwise and otherwise compliant otherwise compliant products compliant products find products find their find their way their way into way into the into the market the market it market it is it is important is important that important that the that the safety the safety risks safety risks that risks that may that may be may be generated be generated by generated by a by a product a product as product as a as a whole a whole due whole due to due to its to its digital its digital components digital components including components including ai including ai systems ai systems are systems are duly are duly prevented duly prevented and prevented and mitigated.
consistently with the objectives with the objectives of the objectives of union objectives of union harmonisation of union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation to harmonisation legislation to facilitate legislation to facilitate the to facilitate the free facilitate the free movement the free movement of free movement of products movement of products in of products in the products in the internal in the internal market the internal market and internal market and to market and to ensure and to ensure that to ensure that only ensure that only safe that only safe and only safe and otherwise safe and otherwise compliant and otherwise compliant products otherwise compliant products find compliant products find their products find their way find their way into their way into the way into the market into the market it the market it is market it is important it is important that is important that the important that the safety that the safety risks the safety risks that safety risks that may risks that may be that may be generated may be generated by be generated by a generated by a product by a product as a product as a product as a whole as a whole due a whole due to whole due to its due to its digital to its digital components its digital components including digital components including ai components including ai systems including ai systems are ai systems are duly systems are duly prevented are duly prevented and duly prevented and mitigated.
for instance instance increasingly increasingly autonomous autonomous robots robots whether whether in in the the context context of of manufacturing manufacturing or or personal personal assistance assistance and and care care should should be be able able to to safely safely operate operate and and performs performs their their functions functions in in complex complex environments.
for instance increasingly instance increasingly autonomous increasingly autonomous robots autonomous robots whether robots whether in whether in the in the context the context of context of manufacturing of manufacturing or manufacturing or personal or personal assistance personal assistance and assistance and care and care should care should be should be able be able to able to safely to safely operate safely operate and operate and performs and performs their performs their functions their functions in functions in complex in complex environments.
for instance increasingly autonomous instance increasingly autonomous robots increasingly autonomous robots whether autonomous robots whether in robots whether in the whether in the context in the context of the context of manufacturing context of manufacturing or of manufacturing or personal manufacturing or personal assistance or personal assistance and personal assistance and care assistance and care should and care should be care should be able should be able to be able to safely able to safely operate to safely operate and safely operate and performs operate and performs their and performs their functions performs their functions in their functions in complex functions in complex environments.
similarly in in the the health health sector sector where where the the stakes stakes for for life life and and health health are are particularly particularly high high increasingly increasingly sophisticated sophisticated diagnostics diagnostics systems systems and and systems systems supporting supporting human human decisions decisions should should be be reliable reliable and and accurate.
similarly in the in the health the health sector health sector where sector where the where the stakes the stakes for stakes for life for life and life and health and health are health are particularly are particularly high particularly high increasingly high increasingly sophisticated increasingly sophisticated diagnostics sophisticated diagnostics systems diagnostics systems and systems and systems and systems supporting systems supporting human supporting human decisions human decisions should decisions should be should be reliable be reliable and reliable and accurate.
similarly in the health in the health sector the health sector where health sector where the sector where the stakes where the stakes for the stakes for life stakes for life and for life and health life and health are and health are particularly health are particularly high are particularly high increasingly particularly high increasingly sophisticated high increasingly sophisticated diagnostics increasingly sophisticated diagnostics systems sophisticated diagnostics systems and diagnostics systems and systems systems and systems supporting and systems supporting human systems supporting human decisions supporting human decisions should human decisions should be decisions should be reliable should be reliable and be reliable and accurate.
the extent extent of of the the adverse adverse impact impact caused caused by by the the ai ai system system on on the the fundamental fundamental rights rights protected protected by by the the charter charter is is of of particular particular relevance relevance when when classifying classifying an an ai ai system system as as high-risk.
the extent of extent of the of the adverse the adverse impact adverse impact caused impact caused by caused by the by the ai the ai system ai system on system on the on the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights protected rights protected by protected by the by the charter the charter is charter is of is of particular of particular relevance particular relevance when relevance when classifying when classifying an classifying an ai an ai system ai system as system as high-risk.
the extent of the extent of the adverse of the adverse impact the adverse impact caused adverse impact caused by impact caused by the caused by the ai by the ai system the ai system on ai system on the system on the fundamental on the fundamental rights the fundamental rights protected fundamental rights protected by rights protected by the protected by the charter by the charter is the charter is of charter is of particular is of particular relevance of particular relevance when particular relevance when classifying relevance when classifying an when classifying an ai classifying an ai system an ai system as ai system as high-risk.
those rights rights include include the the right right to to human human dignity dignity respect respect for for private private and and family family life life protection protection of of personal personal data data freedom freedom of of expression expression and and information information freedom freedom of of assembly assembly and and of of association association and and non-discrimination non-discrimination consumer consumer protection protection workers’ workers’ rights rights rights rights of of persons persons with with disabilities disabilities right right to to an an effective effective remedy remedy and and to to a a fair fair trial trial right right of of defence defence and and the the presumption presumption of of innocence innocence right right to to good good administration.
those rights include rights include the include the right the right to right to human to human dignity human dignity respect dignity respect for respect for private for private and private and family and family life family life protection life protection of protection of personal of personal data personal data freedom data freedom of freedom of expression of expression and expression and information and information freedom information freedom of freedom of assembly of assembly and assembly and of and of association of association and association and non-discrimination and non-discrimination consumer non-discrimination consumer protection consumer protection workers’ protection workers’ rights workers’ rights rights rights rights of rights of persons of persons with persons with disabilities with disabilities right disabilities right to right to an to an effective an effective remedy effective remedy and remedy and to and to a to a fair a fair trial fair trial right trial right of right of defence of defence and defence and the and the presumption the presumption of presumption of innocence of innocence right innocence right to right to good to good administration.
those rights include the rights include the right include the right to the right to human right to human dignity to human dignity respect human dignity respect for dignity respect for private respect for private and for private and family private and family life and family life protection family life protection of life protection of personal protection of personal data of personal data freedom personal data freedom of data freedom of expression freedom of expression and of expression and information expression and information freedom and information freedom of information freedom of assembly freedom of assembly and of assembly and of assembly and of association and of association and of association and non-discrimination association and non-discrimination consumer and non-discrimination consumer protection non-discrimination consumer protection workers’ consumer protection workers’ rights protection workers’ rights rights workers’ rights rights of rights rights of persons rights of persons with of persons with disabilities persons with disabilities right with disabilities right to disabilities right to an right to an effective to an effective remedy an effective remedy and effective remedy and to remedy and to a and to a fair to a fair trial a fair trial right fair trial right of trial right of defence right of defence and of defence and the defence and the presumption and the presumption of the presumption of innocence presumption of innocence right of innocence right to innocence right to good right to good administration.
in addition addition to to those those rights rights it it is is important important to to highlight highlight that that children children have have specific specific rights rights as as enshrined enshrined in in article article of of the the eu eu charter charter and and in in the the united united nations nations convention convention on on the the rights rights of of the the child child further further elaborated elaborated in in the the uncrc uncrc general general comment comment no.
in addition to addition to those to those rights those rights it rights it is it is important is important to important to highlight to highlight that highlight that children that children have children have specific have specific rights specific rights as rights as enshrined as enshrined in enshrined in article in article of article of the of the eu the eu charter eu charter and charter and in and in the in the united the united nations united nations convention nations convention on convention on the on the rights the rights of rights of the of the child the child further child further elaborated further elaborated in elaborated in the in the uncrc the uncrc general uncrc general comment general comment no.
in addition to those addition to those rights to those rights it those rights it is rights it is important it is important to is important to highlight important to highlight that to highlight that children highlight that children have that children have specific children have specific rights have specific rights as specific rights as enshrined rights as enshrined in as enshrined in article enshrined in article of in article of the article of the eu of the eu charter the eu charter and eu charter and in charter and in the and in the united in the united nations the united nations convention united nations convention on nations convention on the convention on the rights on the rights of the rights of the rights of the child of the child further the child further elaborated child further elaborated in further elaborated in the elaborated in the uncrc in the uncrc general the uncrc general comment uncrc general comment no.
as regards regards the the digital digital environment environment both both of of which which require require consideration consideration of of the the children’s children’s vulnerabilities vulnerabilities and and provision provision of of such such protection protection and and care care as as necessary necessary for for their their well-being.
as regards the regards the digital the digital environment digital environment both environment both of both of which of which require which require consideration require consideration of consideration of the of the children’s the children’s vulnerabilities children’s vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities and provision and provision of provision of such of such protection such protection and protection and care and care as care as necessary as necessary for necessary for their for their well-being.
as regards the digital regards the digital environment the digital environment both digital environment both of environment both of which both of which require of which require consideration which require consideration of require consideration of the consideration of the children’s of the children’s vulnerabilities the children’s vulnerabilities and children’s vulnerabilities and provision vulnerabilities and provision of and provision of such provision of such protection of such protection and such protection and care protection and care as and care as necessary care as necessary for as necessary for their necessary for their well-being.
the fundamental fundamental right right to to a a high high level level of of environmental environmental protection protection enshrined enshrined in in the the charter charter and and implemented implemented in in union union policies policies should should also also be be considered considered when when assessing assessing the the severity severity of of the the harm harm that that an an ai ai system system can can cause cause including including in in relation relation to to the the health health and and safety safety of of persons.
the fundamental right fundamental right to right to a to a high a high level high level of level of environmental of environmental protection environmental protection enshrined protection enshrined in enshrined in the in the charter the charter and charter and implemented and implemented in implemented in union in union policies union policies should policies should also should also be also be considered be considered when considered when assessing when assessing the assessing the severity the severity of severity of the of the harm the harm that harm that an that an ai an ai system ai system can system can cause can cause including cause including in including in relation in relation to relation to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons.
the fundamental right to fundamental right to a right to a high to a high level a high level of high level of environmental level of environmental protection of environmental protection enshrined environmental protection enshrined in protection enshrined in the enshrined in the charter in the charter and the charter and implemented charter and implemented in and implemented in union implemented in union policies in union policies should union policies should also policies should also be should also be considered also be considered when be considered when assessing considered when assessing the when assessing the severity assessing the severity of the severity of the severity of the harm of the harm that the harm that an harm that an ai that an ai system an ai system can ai system can cause system can cause including can cause including in cause including in relation including in relation to in relation to the relation to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons.
tree..b rbek rbek en en as as regards regards high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are safety safety components components of of products products or or systems systems or or which which are are themselves themselves products products or or systems systems falling falling within within the the scope scope of of regulation regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council regulation regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council regulation regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council it it is is appropriate appropriate to to amend amend those those acts acts to to ensure ensure that that the the commission commission takes takes into into account account on on the the basis basis of of the the technical technical and and regulatory regulatory specificities specificities of of each each sector sector and and without without interfering interfering with with existing existing governance governance conformity conformity assessment assessment and and enforcement enforcement mechanisms mechanisms and and authorities authorities established established therein therein the the mandatory mandatory requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems laid laid down down in in this this regulation regulation when when adopting adopting any any relevant relevant future future delegated delegated or or implementing implementing acts acts on on the the basis basis of of those those acts.
tree..b rbek en rbek en as en as regards as regards high-risk regards high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are safety are safety components safety components of components of products of products or products or systems or systems or systems or which or which are which are themselves are themselves products themselves products or products or systems or systems falling systems falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of regulation of regulation ec regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council regulation council regulation eu regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council regulation council regulation eu regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council directive council directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council directive council directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council regulation council regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council regulation council regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council it council it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to amend to amend those amend those acts those acts to acts to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the commission the commission takes commission takes into takes into account into account on account on the on the basis the basis of basis of the of the technical the technical and technical and regulatory and regulatory specificities regulatory specificities of specificities of each of each sector each sector and sector and without and without interfering without interfering with interfering with existing with existing governance existing governance conformity governance conformity assessment conformity assessment and assessment and enforcement and enforcement mechanisms enforcement mechanisms and mechanisms and authorities and authorities established authorities established therein established therein the therein the mandatory the mandatory requirements mandatory requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems laid systems laid down laid down in down in this in this regulation this regulation when regulation when adopting when adopting any adopting any relevant any relevant future relevant future delegated future delegated or delegated or implementing or implementing acts implementing acts on acts on the on the basis the basis of basis of those of those acts.
tree..b rbek en as rbek en as regards en as regards high-risk as regards high-risk ai regards high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are safety that are safety components are safety components of safety components of products components of products or of products or systems products or systems or or systems or which systems or which are or which are themselves which are themselves products are themselves products or themselves products or systems products or systems falling or systems falling within systems falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of regulation scope of regulation ec of regulation ec no regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council regulation the council regulation eu council regulation eu no regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council regulation the council regulation eu council regulation eu no regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council directive the council directive eu council directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council directive the council directive eu council directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council regulation the council regulation eu council regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council regulation the council regulation eu council regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and regulation council and regulation eu and regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council it the council it is council it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to amend appropriate to amend those to amend those acts amend those acts to those acts to ensure acts to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the commission that the commission takes the commission takes into commission takes into account takes into account on into account on the account on the basis on the basis of the basis of the basis of the technical of the technical and the technical and regulatory technical and regulatory specificities and regulatory specificities of regulatory specificities of each specificities of each sector of each sector and each sector and without sector and without interfering and without interfering with without interfering with existing interfering with existing governance with existing governance conformity existing governance conformity assessment governance conformity assessment and conformity assessment and enforcement assessment and enforcement mechanisms and enforcement mechanisms and enforcement mechanisms and authorities mechanisms and authorities established and authorities established therein authorities established therein the established therein the mandatory therein the mandatory requirements the mandatory requirements for mandatory requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems laid ai systems laid down systems laid down in laid down in this down in this regulation in this regulation when this regulation when adopting regulation when adopting any when adopting any relevant adopting any relevant future any relevant future delegated relevant future delegated or future delegated or implementing delegated or implementing acts or implementing acts on implementing acts on the acts on the basis on the basis of the basis of those basis of those acts.
regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of march march on on common common rules rules in in the the field field of of civil civil aviation aviation security security and and repealing repealing regulation regulation ec ec no no oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of march of march on march on common on common rules common rules in rules in the in the field the field of field of civil of civil aviation civil aviation security aviation security and security and repealing and repealing regulation repealing regulation ec regulation ec no ec no oj no oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of march council of march on of march on common march on common rules on common rules in common rules in the rules in the field in the field of the field of civil field of civil aviation of civil aviation security civil aviation security and aviation security and repealing security and repealing regulation and repealing regulation ec repealing regulation ec no regulation ec no oj ec no oj l no oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of february february on on the the approval approval and and market market surveillance surveillance of of agricultural agricultural and and forestry forestry vehicles vehicles oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of february of february on february on the on the approval the approval and approval and market and market surveillance market surveillance of surveillance of agricultural of agricultural and agricultural and forestry and forestry vehicles forestry vehicles oj vehicles oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of february council of february on of february on the february on the approval on the approval and the approval and market approval and market surveillance and market surveillance of market surveillance of agricultural surveillance of agricultural and of agricultural and forestry agricultural and forestry vehicles and forestry vehicles oj forestry vehicles oj l vehicles oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of january january on on the the approval approval and and market market surveillance surveillance of of two- two- or or three-wheel three-wheel vehicles vehicles and and quadricycles quadricycles oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of january of january on january on the on the approval the approval and approval and market and market surveillance market surveillance of surveillance of two- of two- or two- or three-wheel or three-wheel vehicles three-wheel vehicles and vehicles and quadricycles and quadricycles oj quadricycles oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of january council of january on of january on the january on the approval on the approval and the approval and market approval and market surveillance and market surveillance of market surveillance of two- surveillance of two- or of two- or three-wheel two- or three-wheel vehicles or three-wheel vehicles and three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles vehicles and quadricycles oj and quadricycles oj l quadricycles oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of july july on on marine marine equipment equipment and and repealing repealing council council directive directive ec ec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of july of july on july on marine on marine equipment marine equipment and equipment and repealing and repealing council repealing council directive council directive ec directive ec oj ec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of july council of july on of july on marine july on marine equipment on marine equipment and marine equipment and repealing equipment and repealing council and repealing council directive repealing council directive ec council directive ec oj directive ec oj l ec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of may may on on the the interoperability interoperability of of the the rail rail system system within within the the european european union union oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of may of may on may on the on the interoperability the interoperability of interoperability of the of the rail the rail system rail system within system within the within the european the european union european union oj union oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of may council of may on of may on the may on the interoperability on the interoperability of the interoperability of the interoperability of the rail of the rail system the rail system within rail system within the system within the european within the european union the european union oj european union oj l union oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of may may on on the the approval approval and and market market surveillance surveillance of of motor motor vehicles vehicles and and their their trailers trailers and and of of systems systems components components and and separate separate technical technical units units intended intended for for such such vehicles vehicles amending amending regulations regulations ec ec no no and and ec ec no no and and repealing repealing directive directive ec ec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of may of may on may on the on the approval the approval and approval and market and market surveillance market surveillance of surveillance of motor of motor vehicles motor vehicles and vehicles and their and their trailers their trailers and trailers and of and of systems of systems components systems components and components and separate and separate technical separate technical units technical units intended units intended for intended for such for such vehicles such vehicles amending vehicles amending regulations amending regulations ec regulations ec no ec no and no and ec and ec no ec no and no and repealing and repealing directive repealing directive ec directive ec oj ec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of may council of may on of may on the may on the approval on the approval and the approval and market approval and market surveillance and market surveillance of market surveillance of motor surveillance of motor vehicles of motor vehicles and motor vehicles and their vehicles and their trailers and their trailers and their trailers and of trailers and of systems and of systems components of systems components and systems components and separate components and separate technical and separate technical units separate technical units intended technical units intended for units intended for such intended for such vehicles for such vehicles amending such vehicles amending regulations vehicles amending regulations ec amending regulations ec no regulations ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no and repealing no and repealing directive and repealing directive ec repealing directive ec oj directive ec oj l ec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of july july on on common common rules rules in in the the field field of of civil civil aviation aviation and and establishing establishing a a european european union union aviation aviation safety safety agency agency and and amending amending regulations regulations ec ec no no ec ec no no eu eu no no eu eu no no and and directives directives eu eu and and eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and repealing repealing regulations regulations ec ec no no and and ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and council council regulation regulation eec eec no no oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of july of july on july on common on common rules common rules in rules in the in the field the field of field of civil of civil aviation civil aviation and aviation and establishing and establishing a establishing a european a european union european union aviation union aviation safety aviation safety agency safety agency and agency and amending and amending regulations amending regulations ec regulations ec no ec no ec no ec no ec no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no and no and directives and directives eu directives eu and eu and eu and eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and repealing and repealing regulations repealing regulations ec regulations ec no ec no and no and ec and ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and council and council regulation council regulation eec regulation eec no eec no oj no oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of july council of july on of july on common july on common rules on common rules in common rules in the rules in the field in the field of the field of civil field of civil aviation of civil aviation and civil aviation and establishing aviation and establishing a and establishing a european establishing a european union a european union aviation european union aviation safety union aviation safety agency aviation safety agency and safety agency and amending agency and amending regulations and amending regulations ec amending regulations ec no regulations ec no ec ec no ec no no ec no eu ec no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no and eu no and directives no and directives eu and directives eu and directives eu and eu eu and eu of and eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and repealing council and repealing regulations and repealing regulations ec repealing regulations ec no regulations ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and council council and council regulation and council regulation eec council regulation eec no regulation eec no oj eec no oj l no oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of november november on on type-approval type-approval requirements requirements for for motor motor vehicles vehicles and and their their trailers trailers and and systems systems components components and and separate separate technical technical units units intended intended for for such such vehicles vehicles as as regards regards their their general general safety safety and and the the protection protection of of vehicle vehicle occupants occupants and and vulnerable vulnerable road road users users amending amending regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and repealing repealing regulations regulations ec ec no no ec ec no no and and ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and commission commission regulations regulations ec ec no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no eu eu no no and and eu eu oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of november of november on november on type-approval on type-approval requirements type-approval requirements for requirements for motor for motor vehicles motor vehicles and vehicles and their and their trailers their trailers and trailers and systems and systems components systems components and components and separate and separate technical separate technical units technical units intended units intended for intended for such for such vehicles such vehicles as vehicles as regards as regards their regards their general their general safety general safety and safety and the and the protection the protection of protection of vehicle of vehicle occupants vehicle occupants and occupants and vulnerable and vulnerable road vulnerable road users road users amending users amending regulation amending regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and repealing and repealing regulations repealing regulations ec regulations ec no ec no ec no ec no ec no and no and ec and ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and commission and commission regulations commission regulations ec regulations ec no ec no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no eu no and no and eu and eu oj eu oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of november council of november on of november on type-approval november on type-approval requirements on type-approval requirements for type-approval requirements for motor requirements for motor vehicles for motor vehicles and motor vehicles and their vehicles and their trailers and their trailers and their trailers and systems trailers and systems components and systems components and systems components and separate components and separate technical and separate technical units separate technical units intended technical units intended for units intended for such intended for such vehicles for such vehicles as such vehicles as regards vehicles as regards their as regards their general regards their general safety their general safety and general safety and the safety and the protection and the protection of the protection of vehicle protection of vehicle occupants of vehicle occupants and vehicle occupants and vulnerable occupants and vulnerable road and vulnerable road users vulnerable road users amending road users amending regulation users amending regulation eu amending regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and repealing council and repealing regulations and repealing regulations ec repealing regulations ec no regulations ec no ec ec no ec no no ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no and ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and commission council and commission regulations and commission regulations ec commission regulations ec no regulations ec no eu ec no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no eu eu no eu no no eu no and eu no and eu no and eu oj and eu oj l eu oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en as as regards regards ai ai systems systems that that are are safety safety components components of of products products or or which which are are themselves themselves products products falling falling within within the the scope scope of of certain certain union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation it it is is appropriate appropriate to to classify classify them them as as high-risk high-risk under under this this regulation regulation if if the the product product in in question question undergoes undergoes the the conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure with with a a third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment body body pursuant pursuant to to that that relevant relevant union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation.
tree..b rbek en rbek en as en as regards as regards ai regards ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are safety are safety components safety components of components of products of products or products or which or which are which are themselves are themselves products themselves products falling products falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of certain of certain union certain union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation it legislation it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to classify to classify them classify them as them as high-risk as high-risk under high-risk under this under this regulation this regulation if regulation if the if the product the product in product in question in question undergoes question undergoes the undergoes the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure with procedure with a with a third-party a third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment body assessment body pursuant body pursuant to pursuant to that to that relevant that relevant union relevant union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation.
tree..b rbek en as rbek en as regards en as regards ai as regards ai systems regards ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are safety that are safety components are safety components of safety components of products components of products or of products or which products or which are or which are themselves which are themselves products are themselves products falling themselves products falling within products falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of certain scope of certain union of certain union harmonisation certain union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation it harmonisation legislation it is legislation it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to classify appropriate to classify them to classify them as classify them as high-risk them as high-risk under as high-risk under this high-risk under this regulation under this regulation if this regulation if the regulation if the product if the product in the product in question product in question undergoes in question undergoes the question undergoes the conformity undergoes the conformity assessment the conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure with assessment procedure with a procedure with a third-party with a third-party conformity a third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment body conformity assessment body pursuant assessment body pursuant to body pursuant to that pursuant to that relevant to that relevant union that relevant union harmonisation relevant union harmonisation legislation.
in particular particular such such products products are are machinery machinery toys toys lifts lifts equipment equipment and and protective protective systems systems intended intended for for use use in in potentially potentially explosive explosive atmospheres atmospheres radio radio equipment equipment pressure pressure equipment equipment recreational recreational craft craft equipment equipment cableway cableway installations installations appliances appliances burning burning gaseous gaseous fuels fuels medical medical devices devices and and in in vitro vitro diagnostic diagnostic medical medical devices.
in particular such particular such products such products are products are machinery are machinery toys machinery toys lifts toys lifts equipment lifts equipment and equipment and protective and protective systems protective systems intended systems intended for intended for use for use in use in potentially in potentially explosive potentially explosive atmospheres explosive atmospheres radio atmospheres radio equipment radio equipment pressure equipment pressure equipment pressure equipment recreational equipment recreational craft recreational craft equipment craft equipment cableway equipment cableway installations cableway installations appliances installations appliances burning appliances burning gaseous burning gaseous fuels gaseous fuels medical fuels medical devices medical devices and devices and in and in vitro in vitro diagnostic vitro diagnostic medical diagnostic medical devices.
in particular such products particular such products are such products are machinery products are machinery toys are machinery toys lifts machinery toys lifts equipment toys lifts equipment and lifts equipment and protective equipment and protective systems and protective systems intended protective systems intended for systems intended for use intended for use in for use in potentially use in potentially explosive in potentially explosive atmospheres potentially explosive atmospheres radio explosive atmospheres radio equipment atmospheres radio equipment pressure radio equipment pressure equipment equipment pressure equipment recreational pressure equipment recreational craft equipment recreational craft equipment recreational craft equipment cableway craft equipment cableway installations equipment cableway installations appliances cableway installations appliances burning installations appliances burning gaseous appliances burning gaseous fuels burning gaseous fuels medical gaseous fuels medical devices fuels medical devices and medical devices and in devices and in vitro and in vitro diagnostic in vitro diagnostic medical vitro diagnostic medical devices.
the classification classification of of an an ai ai system system as as high-risk high-risk pursuant pursuant to to this this regulation regulation should should not not necessarily necessarily mean mean that that the the product product whose whose safety safety component component is is the the ai ai system system or or the the ai ai system system itself itself as as a a product product is is considered considered ‘high-risk’ ‘high-risk’ under under the the criteria criteria established established in in the the relevant relevant union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation that that applies applies to to the the product.
the classification of classification of an of an ai an ai system ai system as system as high-risk as high-risk pursuant high-risk pursuant to pursuant to this to this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not necessarily not necessarily mean necessarily mean that mean that the that the product the product whose product whose safety whose safety component safety component is component is the is the ai the ai system ai system or system or the or the ai the ai system ai system itself system itself as itself as a as a product a product is product is considered is considered ‘high-risk’ considered ‘high-risk’ under ‘high-risk’ under the under the criteria the criteria established criteria established in established in the in the relevant the relevant union relevant union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation that legislation that applies that applies to applies to the to the product.
the classification of an classification of an ai of an ai system an ai system as ai system as high-risk system as high-risk pursuant as high-risk pursuant to high-risk pursuant to this pursuant to this regulation to this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not necessarily should not necessarily mean not necessarily mean that necessarily mean that the mean that the product that the product whose the product whose safety product whose safety component whose safety component is safety component is the component is the ai is the ai system the ai system or ai system or the system or the ai or the ai system the ai system itself ai system itself as system itself as a itself as a product as a product is a product is considered product is considered ‘high-risk’ is considered ‘high-risk’ under considered ‘high-risk’ under the ‘high-risk’ under the criteria under the criteria established the criteria established in criteria established in the established in the relevant in the relevant union the relevant union harmonisation relevant union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation that harmonisation legislation that applies legislation that applies to that applies to the applies to the product.
this is is notably notably the the case case for for regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council where where a a third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment is is provided provided for for medium-risk medium-risk and and high-risk high-risk products.
this is notably is notably the notably the case the case for case for regulation for regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council where council where a where a third-party a third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment is assessment is provided is provided for provided for medium-risk for medium-risk and medium-risk and high-risk and high-risk products.
this is notably the is notably the case notably the case for the case for regulation case for regulation eu for regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and regulation council and regulation eu and regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council where the council where a council where a third-party where a third-party conformity a third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment is conformity assessment is provided assessment is provided for is provided for medium-risk provided for medium-risk and for medium-risk and high-risk medium-risk and high-risk products.
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of april april on on medical medical devices devices amending amending directive directive ec ec regulation regulation ec ec no no and and regulation regulation ec ec no no and and repealing repealing council council directives directives eec eec and and eec eec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of april of april on april on medical on medical devices medical devices amending devices amending directive amending directive ec directive ec regulation ec regulation ec regulation ec no ec no and no and regulation and regulation ec regulation ec no ec no and no and repealing and repealing council repealing council directives council directives eec directives eec and eec and eec and eec oj eec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of april council of april on of april on medical april on medical devices on medical devices amending medical devices amending directive devices amending directive ec amending directive ec regulation directive ec regulation ec ec regulation ec no regulation ec no and ec no and regulation no and regulation ec and regulation ec no regulation ec no and ec no and repealing no and repealing council and repealing council directives repealing council directives eec council directives eec and directives eec and eec eec and eec oj and eec oj l eec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of april april on on in in vitro vitro diagnostic diagnostic medical medical devices devices and and repealing repealing directive directive ec ec and and commission commission decision decision eu eu oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of april of april on april on in on in vitro in vitro diagnostic vitro diagnostic medical diagnostic medical devices medical devices and devices and repealing and repealing directive repealing directive ec directive ec and ec and commission and commission decision commission decision eu decision eu oj eu oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of april council of april on of april on in april on in vitro on in vitro diagnostic in vitro diagnostic medical vitro diagnostic medical devices diagnostic medical devices and medical devices and repealing devices and repealing directive and repealing directive ec repealing directive ec and directive ec and commission ec and commission decision and commission decision eu commission decision eu oj decision eu oj l eu oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en as as regards regards high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems other other than than those those that that are are safety safety components components of of products products or or which which are are themselves themselves products products it it is is appropriate appropriate to to classify classify them them as as high-risk high-risk if if in in the the light light of of their their intended intended purpose purpose they they pose pose a a high high risk risk of of harm harm to to the the health health and and safety safety or or the the fundamental fundamental rights rights of of persons persons taking taking into into account account both both the the severity severity of of the the possible possible harm harm and and its its probability probability of of occurrence occurrence and and they they are are used used in in a a number number of of specifically specifically pre-defined pre-defined areas areas specified specified in in the the regulation.
tree..b rbek en rbek en as en as regards as regards high-risk regards high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems other systems other than other than those than those that those that are that are safety are safety components safety components of components of products of products or products or which or which are which are themselves are themselves products themselves products it products it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to classify to classify them classify them as them as high-risk as high-risk if high-risk if in if in the in the light the light of light of their of their intended their intended purpose intended purpose they purpose they pose they pose a pose a high a high risk high risk of risk of harm of harm to harm to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety or safety or the or the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of persons of persons taking persons taking into taking into account into account both account both the both the severity the severity of severity of the of the possible the possible harm possible harm and harm and its and its probability its probability of probability of occurrence of occurrence and occurrence and they and they are they are used are used in used in a in a number a number of number of specifically of specifically pre-defined specifically pre-defined areas pre-defined areas specified areas specified in specified in the in the regulation.
tree..b rbek en as rbek en as regards en as regards high-risk as regards high-risk ai regards high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems other ai systems other than systems other than those other than those that than those that are those that are safety that are safety components are safety components of safety components of products components of products or of products or which products or which are or which are themselves which are themselves products are themselves products it themselves products it is products it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to classify appropriate to classify them to classify them as classify them as high-risk them as high-risk if as high-risk if in high-risk if in the if in the light in the light of the light of their light of their intended of their intended purpose their intended purpose they intended purpose they pose purpose they pose a they pose a high pose a high risk a high risk of high risk of harm risk of harm to of harm to the harm to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety or and safety or the safety or the fundamental or the fundamental rights the fundamental rights of fundamental rights of persons rights of persons taking of persons taking into persons taking into account taking into account both into account both the account both the severity both the severity of the severity of the severity of the possible of the possible harm the possible harm and possible harm and its harm and its probability and its probability of its probability of occurrence probability of occurrence and of occurrence and they occurrence and they are and they are used they are used in are used in a used in a number in a number of a number of specifically number of specifically pre-defined of specifically pre-defined areas specifically pre-defined areas specified pre-defined areas specified in areas specified in the specified in the regulation.
the identification identification of of those those systems systems is is based based on on the the same same methodology methodology and and criteria criteria envisaged envisaged also also for for any any future future amendments amendments of of the the list list of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
the identification of identification of those of those systems those systems is systems is based is based on based on the on the same the same methodology same methodology and methodology and criteria and criteria envisaged criteria envisaged also envisaged also for also for any for any future any future amendments future amendments of amendments of the of the list the list of list of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
the identification of those identification of those systems of those systems is those systems is based systems is based on is based on the based on the same on the same methodology the same methodology and same methodology and criteria methodology and criteria envisaged and criteria envisaged also criteria envisaged also for envisaged also for any also for any future for any future amendments any future amendments of future amendments of the amendments of the list of the list of the list of high-risk list of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems.
it is is also also important important to to clarify clarify that that within within the the high-risk high-risk scenarios scenarios referred referred to to in in annex annex iii iii there there may may be be systems systems that that do do not not lead lead to to a a significant significant risk risk to to the the legal legal interests interests protected protected under under those those scenarios scenarios taking taking into into account account the the output output produced produced by by the the ai ai system.
it is also is also important also important to important to clarify to clarify that clarify that within that within the within the high-risk the high-risk scenarios high-risk scenarios referred scenarios referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii annex iii there iii there may there may be may be systems be systems that systems that do that do not do not lead not lead to lead to a to a significant a significant risk significant risk to risk to the to the legal the legal interests legal interests protected interests protected under protected under those under those scenarios those scenarios taking scenarios taking into taking into account into account the account the output the output produced output produced by produced by the by the ai the ai system.
it is also important is also important to also important to clarify important to clarify that to clarify that within clarify that within the that within the high-risk within the high-risk scenarios the high-risk scenarios referred high-risk scenarios referred to scenarios referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii in annex iii there annex iii there may iii there may be there may be systems may be systems that be systems that do systems that do not that do not lead do not lead to not lead to a lead to a significant to a significant risk a significant risk to significant risk to the risk to the legal to the legal interests the legal interests protected legal interests protected under interests protected under those protected under those scenarios under those scenarios taking those scenarios taking into scenarios taking into account taking into account the into account the output account the output produced the output produced by output produced by the produced by the ai by the ai system.
therefore only only when when such such output output has has a a high high degree degree of of importance importance i.e.
therefore only when only when such when such output such output has output has a has a high a high degree high degree of degree of importance of importance i.e.
therefore only when such only when such output when such output has such output has a output has a high has a high degree a high degree of high degree of importance degree of importance i.e.
is not not purely purely accessory accessory in in respect respect of of the the relevant relevant action action or or decision decision so so as as to to generate generate a a significant significant risk risk to to the the legal legal interests interests protected protected the the ai ai system system generating generating such such output output should should be be considered considered as as high-risk.
is not purely not purely accessory purely accessory in accessory in respect in respect of respect of the of the relevant the relevant action relevant action or action or decision or decision so decision so as so as to as to generate to generate a generate a significant a significant risk significant risk to risk to the to the legal the legal interests legal interests protected interests protected the protected the ai the ai system ai system generating system generating such generating such output such output should output should be should be considered be considered as considered as high-risk.
is not purely accessory not purely accessory in purely accessory in respect accessory in respect of in respect of the respect of the relevant of the relevant action the relevant action or relevant action or decision action or decision so or decision so as decision so as to so as to generate as to generate a to generate a significant generate a significant risk a significant risk to significant risk to the risk to the legal to the legal interests the legal interests protected legal interests protected the interests protected the ai protected the ai system the ai system generating ai system generating such system generating such output generating such output should such output should be output should be considered should be considered as be considered as high-risk.
for instance instance when when the the information information provided provided by by an an ai ai systems systems to to the the human human consists consists of of the the profiling profiling of of natural natural persons persons within within the the meaning meaning of of of of article article regulation regulation eu eu and and article article of of directive directive eu eu and and article article of of regulation regulation eu eu such such information information should should not not typically typically be be considered considered of of accessory accessory nature nature in in the the context context of of high high risk risk ai ai systems systems as as referred referred to to in in annex annex iii.
for instance when instance when the when the information the information provided information provided by provided by an by an ai an ai systems ai systems to systems to the to the human the human consists human consists of consists of the of the profiling the profiling of profiling of natural of natural persons natural persons within persons within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of of of of article of article regulation article regulation eu regulation eu and eu and article and article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu and eu and article and article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu such eu such information such information should information should not should not typically not typically be typically be considered be considered of considered of accessory of accessory nature accessory nature in nature in the in the context the context of context of high of high risk high risk ai risk ai systems ai systems as systems as referred as referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii.
for instance when the instance when the information when the information provided the information provided by information provided by an provided by an ai by an ai systems an ai systems to ai systems to the systems to the human to the human consists the human consists of human consists of the consists of the profiling of the profiling of the profiling of natural profiling of natural persons of natural persons within natural persons within the persons within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of of meaning of of article of of article regulation of article regulation eu article regulation eu and regulation eu and article eu and article of and article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu and directive eu and article eu and article of and article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu such regulation eu such information eu such information should such information should not information should not typically should not typically be not typically be considered typically be considered of be considered of accessory considered of accessory nature of accessory nature in accessory nature in the nature in the context in the context of the context of high context of high risk of high risk ai high risk ai systems risk ai systems as ai systems as referred systems as referred to as referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii.
however if if the the output output of of the the ai ai system system has has only only negligible negligible or or minor minor relevance relevance for for human human action action or or decision decision it it may may be be considered considered purely purely accessory accessory including including for for example example ai ai systems systems used used for for translation translation for for informative informative purposes purposes or or for for the the management management of of documents.
however if the if the output the output of output of the of the ai the ai system ai system has system has only has only negligible only negligible or negligible or minor or minor relevance minor relevance for relevance for human for human action human action or action or decision or decision it decision it may it may be may be considered be considered purely considered purely accessory purely accessory including accessory including for including for example for example ai example ai systems ai systems used systems used for used for translation for translation for translation for informative for informative purposes informative purposes or purposes or for or for the for the management the management of management of documents.
however if the output if the output of the output of the output of the ai of the ai system the ai system has ai system has only system has only negligible has only negligible or only negligible or minor negligible or minor relevance or minor relevance for minor relevance for human relevance for human action for human action or human action or decision action or decision it or decision it may decision it may be it may be considered may be considered purely be considered purely accessory considered purely accessory including purely accessory including for accessory including for example including for example ai for example ai systems example ai systems used ai systems used for systems used for translation used for translation for for translation for informative translation for informative purposes for informative purposes or informative purposes or for purposes or for the or for the management for the management of the management of documents.
technical inaccuracies inaccuracies of of ai ai systems systems intended intended for for the the remote remote biometric biometric identification identification of of natural natural persons persons can can lead lead to to biased biased results results and and entail entail discriminatory discriminatory effects.
technical inaccuracies of inaccuracies of ai of ai systems ai systems intended systems intended for intended for the for the remote the remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification of identification of natural of natural persons natural persons can persons can lead can lead to lead to biased to biased results biased results and results and entail and entail discriminatory entail discriminatory effects.
technical inaccuracies of ai inaccuracies of ai systems of ai systems intended ai systems intended for systems intended for the intended for the remote for the remote biometric the remote biometric identification remote biometric identification of biometric identification of natural identification of natural persons of natural persons can natural persons can lead persons can lead to can lead to biased lead to biased results to biased results and biased results and entail results and entail discriminatory and entail discriminatory effects.
this is is particularly particularly relevant relevant when when it it comes comes to to age age ethnicity ethnicity race race sex sex or or disabilities.
this is particularly is particularly relevant particularly relevant when relevant when it when it comes it comes to comes to age to age ethnicity age ethnicity race ethnicity race sex race sex or sex or disabilities.
this is particularly relevant is particularly relevant when particularly relevant when it relevant when it comes when it comes to it comes to age comes to age ethnicity to age ethnicity race age ethnicity race sex ethnicity race sex or race sex or disabilities.
therefore ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ and and ‘post’ ‘post’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems should should be be classified classified as as high-risk.
therefore ‘real-time’ and ‘real-time’ and ‘post’ and ‘post’ remote ‘post’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems should systems should be should be classified be classified as classified as high-risk.
therefore ‘real-time’ and ‘post’ ‘real-time’ and ‘post’ remote and ‘post’ remote biometric ‘post’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems should identification systems should be systems should be classified should be classified as be classified as high-risk.
in view view of of the the risks risks that that they they pose pose both both types types of of remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems should should be be subject subject to to specific specific requirements requirements on on logging logging capabilities capabilities and and human human oversight.
in view of view of the of the risks the risks that risks that they that they pose they pose both pose both types both types of types of remote of remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems should systems should be should be subject be subject to subject to specific to specific requirements specific requirements on requirements on logging on logging capabilities logging capabilities and capabilities and human and human oversight.
in view of the view of the risks of the risks that the risks that they risks that they pose that they pose both they pose both types pose both types of both types of remote types of remote biometric of remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems should identification systems should be systems should be subject should be subject to be subject to specific subject to specific requirements to specific requirements on specific requirements on logging requirements on logging capabilities on logging capabilities and logging capabilities and human capabilities and human oversight.
tree..b rbek rbek en en as as regards regards the the management management and and operation operation of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure it it is is appropriate appropriate to to classify classify as as high-risk high-risk the the ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used as as safety safety components components in in the the management management and and operation operation of of critical critical digital digital infrastructure infrastructure as as listed listed in in annex annex i i point point of of the the directive directive on on the the resilience resilience of of critical critical entities entities road road traffic traffic and and the the supply supply of of water water gas gas heating heating and and electricity electricity since since their their failure failure or or malfunctioning malfunctioning may may put put at at risk risk the the life life and and health health of of persons persons at at large large scale scale and and lead lead to to appreciable appreciable disruptions disruptions in in the the ordinary ordinary conduct conduct of of social social and and economic economic activities.
tree..b rbek en rbek en as en as regards as regards the regards the management the management and management and operation and operation of operation of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure it infrastructure it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to classify to classify as classify as high-risk as high-risk the high-risk the ai the ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used as used as safety as safety components safety components in components in the in the management the management and management and operation and operation of operation of critical of critical digital critical digital infrastructure digital infrastructure as infrastructure as listed as listed in listed in annex in annex i annex i point i point of point of the of the directive the directive on directive on the on the resilience the resilience of resilience of critical of critical entities critical entities road entities road traffic road traffic and traffic and the and the supply the supply of supply of water of water gas water gas heating gas heating and heating and electricity and electricity since electricity since their since their failure their failure or failure or malfunctioning or malfunctioning may malfunctioning may put may put at put at risk at risk the risk the life the life and life and health and health of health of persons of persons at persons at large at large scale large scale and scale and lead and lead to lead to appreciable to appreciable disruptions appreciable disruptions in disruptions in the in the ordinary the ordinary conduct ordinary conduct of conduct of social of social and social and economic and economic activities.
tree..b rbek en as rbek en as regards en as regards the as regards the management regards the management and the management and operation management and operation of and operation of critical operation of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure it critical infrastructure it is infrastructure it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to classify appropriate to classify as to classify as high-risk classify as high-risk the as high-risk the ai high-risk the ai systems the ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used as be used as safety used as safety components as safety components in safety components in the components in the management in the management and the management and operation management and operation of and operation of critical operation of critical digital of critical digital infrastructure critical digital infrastructure as digital infrastructure as listed infrastructure as listed in as listed in annex listed in annex i in annex i point annex i point of i point of the point of the directive of the directive on the directive on the directive on the resilience on the resilience of the resilience of critical resilience of critical entities of critical entities road critical entities road traffic entities road traffic and road traffic and the traffic and the supply and the supply of the supply of water supply of water gas of water gas heating water gas heating and gas heating and electricity heating and electricity since and electricity since their electricity since their failure since their failure or their failure or malfunctioning failure or malfunctioning may or malfunctioning may put malfunctioning may put at may put at risk put at risk the at risk the life risk the life and the life and health life and health of and health of persons health of persons at of persons at large persons at large scale at large scale and large scale and lead scale and lead to and lead to appreciable lead to appreciable disruptions to appreciable disruptions in appreciable disruptions in the disruptions in the ordinary in the ordinary conduct the ordinary conduct of ordinary conduct of social conduct of social and of social and economic social and economic activities.
safety components components of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure including including critical critical digital digital infrastrucure infrastrucure are are systems systems used used to to directly directly protect protect the the physical physical integrity integrity of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure or or health health and and safety safety of of persons persons and and property property but but which which are are not not necessary necessary in in order order for for the the system system to to function.
safety components of components of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure including infrastructure including critical including critical digital critical digital infrastrucure digital infrastrucure are infrastrucure are systems are systems used systems used to used to directly to directly protect directly protect the protect the physical the physical integrity physical integrity of integrity of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure or infrastructure or health or health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons of persons and persons and property and property but property but which but which are which are not are not necessary not necessary in necessary in order in order for order for the for the system the system to system to function.
safety components of critical components of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure including critical infrastructure including critical infrastructure including critical digital including critical digital infrastrucure critical digital infrastrucure are digital infrastrucure are systems infrastrucure are systems used are systems used to systems used to directly used to directly protect to directly protect the directly protect the physical protect the physical integrity the physical integrity of physical integrity of critical integrity of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure or critical infrastructure or health infrastructure or health and or health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons safety of persons and of persons and property persons and property but and property but which property but which are but which are not which are not necessary are not necessary in not necessary in order necessary in order for in order for the order for the system for the system to the system to function.
failure or or malfunctioning malfunctioning of of such such components components might might directly directly lead lead to to risks risks to to the the physical physical integrity integrity of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure and and thus thus to to risks risks to to health health and and safety safety of of persons persons and and property.
failure or malfunctioning or malfunctioning of malfunctioning of such of such components such components might components might directly might directly lead directly lead to lead to risks to risks to risks to the to the physical the physical integrity physical integrity of integrity of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure and infrastructure and thus and thus to thus to risks to risks to risks to health to health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons of persons and persons and property.
failure or malfunctioning of or malfunctioning of such malfunctioning of such components of such components might such components might directly components might directly lead might directly lead to directly lead to risks lead to risks to to risks to the risks to the physical to the physical integrity the physical integrity of physical integrity of critical integrity of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure and critical infrastructure and thus infrastructure and thus to and thus to risks thus to risks to to risks to health risks to health and to health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons safety of persons and of persons and property.
components intended intended to to be be used used solely solely for for cybersecurity cybersecurity purposes purposes should should not not qualify qualify as as safety safety components.
components intended to intended to be to be used be used solely used solely for solely for cybersecurity for cybersecurity purposes cybersecurity purposes should purposes should not should not qualify not qualify as qualify as safety as safety components.
components intended to be intended to be used to be used solely be used solely for used solely for cybersecurity solely for cybersecurity purposes for cybersecurity purposes should cybersecurity purposes should not purposes should not qualify should not qualify as not qualify as safety qualify as safety components.
examples of of safety safety components components of of such such critical critical infrastructure infrastructure may may include include systems systems for for monitoring monitoring water water pressure pressure or or fire fire alarm alarm controlling controlling systems systems in in cloud cloud computing computing centres.
examples of safety of safety components safety components of components of such of such critical such critical infrastructure critical infrastructure may infrastructure may include may include systems include systems for systems for monitoring for monitoring water monitoring water pressure water pressure or pressure or fire or fire alarm fire alarm controlling alarm controlling systems controlling systems in systems in cloud in cloud computing cloud computing centres.
examples of safety components of safety components of safety components of such components of such critical of such critical infrastructure such critical infrastructure may critical infrastructure may include infrastructure may include systems may include systems for include systems for monitoring systems for monitoring water for monitoring water pressure monitoring water pressure or water pressure or fire pressure or fire alarm or fire alarm controlling fire alarm controlling systems alarm controlling systems in controlling systems in cloud systems in cloud computing in cloud computing centres.
ai systems systems used used in in education education or or vocational vocational training training notably notably for for determining determining access access admission admission or or assigning assigning persons persons to to educational educational and and vocational vocational training training institutions institutions or or programmes programmes at at all all levels levels or or to to evaluate evaluate learning learning outcomes outcomes of of persons persons should should be be considered considered high-risk high-risk since since they they may may determine determine the the educational educational and and professional professional course course of of a a person’s person’s life life and and therefore therefore affect affect their their ability ability to to secure secure their their livelihood.
ai systems used systems used in used in education in education or education or vocational or vocational training vocational training notably training notably for notably for determining for determining access determining access admission access admission or admission or assigning or assigning persons assigning persons to persons to educational to educational and educational and vocational and vocational training vocational training institutions training institutions or institutions or programmes or programmes at programmes at all at all levels all levels or levels or to or to evaluate to evaluate learning evaluate learning outcomes learning outcomes of outcomes of persons of persons should persons should be should be considered be considered high-risk considered high-risk since high-risk since they since they may they may determine may determine the determine the educational the educational and educational and professional and professional course professional course of course of a of a person’s a person’s life person’s life and life and therefore and therefore affect therefore affect their affect their ability their ability to ability to secure to secure their secure their livelihood.
ai systems used in systems used in education used in education or in education or vocational education or vocational training or vocational training notably vocational training notably for training notably for determining notably for determining access for determining access admission determining access admission or access admission or assigning admission or assigning persons or assigning persons to assigning persons to educational persons to educational and to educational and vocational educational and vocational training and vocational training institutions vocational training institutions or training institutions or programmes institutions or programmes at or programmes at all programmes at all levels at all levels or all levels or to levels or to evaluate or to evaluate learning to evaluate learning outcomes evaluate learning outcomes of learning outcomes of persons outcomes of persons should of persons should be persons should be considered should be considered high-risk be considered high-risk since considered high-risk since they high-risk since they may since they may determine they may determine the may determine the educational determine the educational and the educational and professional educational and professional course and professional course of professional course of a course of a person’s of a person’s life a person’s life and person’s life and therefore life and therefore affect and therefore affect their therefore affect their ability affect their ability to their ability to secure ability to secure their to secure their livelihood.
when improperly improperly designed designed and and used used such such systems systems may may violate violate the the right right to to education education and and training training as as well well as as the the right right not not to to be be discriminated discriminated against against and and perpetuate perpetuate historical historical patterns patterns of of discrimination.
when improperly designed improperly designed and designed and used and used such used such systems such systems may systems may violate may violate the violate the right the right to right to education to education and education and training and training as training as well as well as well as the as the right the right not right not to not to be to be discriminated be discriminated against discriminated against and against and perpetuate and perpetuate historical perpetuate historical patterns historical patterns of patterns of discrimination.
when improperly designed and improperly designed and used designed and used such and used such systems used such systems may such systems may violate systems may violate the may violate the right violate the right to the right to education right to education and to education and training education and training as and training as well training as well as as well as the well as the right as the right not the right not to right not to be not to be discriminated to be discriminated against be discriminated against and discriminated against and perpetuate against and perpetuate historical and perpetuate historical patterns perpetuate historical patterns of historical patterns of discrimination.
tree..b rbek rbek en en ai ai systems systems used used in in employment employment workers workers management management and and access access to to self-employment self-employment notably notably for for the the recruitment recruitment and and selection selection of of persons persons for for making making decisions decisions on on promotion promotion and and termination termination and and for for task task allocation allocation based based on on individual individual behavior behavior or or personal personal traits traits or or characteristics characteristics monitoring monitoring or or evaluation evaluation of of persons persons in in work-related work-related contractual contractual relationships relationships should should also also be be classified classified as as high-risk high-risk since since those those systems systems may may appreciably appreciably impact impact future future career career prospects prospects and and livelihoods livelihoods of of these these persons.
tree..b rbek en rbek en ai en ai systems ai systems used systems used in used in employment in employment workers employment workers management workers management and management and access and access to access to self-employment to self-employment notably self-employment notably for notably for the for the recruitment the recruitment and recruitment and selection and selection of selection of persons of persons for persons for making for making decisions making decisions on decisions on promotion on promotion and promotion and termination and termination and termination and for and for task for task allocation task allocation based allocation based on based on individual on individual behavior individual behavior or behavior or personal or personal traits personal traits or traits or characteristics or characteristics monitoring characteristics monitoring or monitoring or evaluation or evaluation of evaluation of persons of persons in persons in work-related in work-related contractual work-related contractual relationships contractual relationships should relationships should also should also be also be classified be classified as classified as high-risk as high-risk since high-risk since those since those systems those systems may systems may appreciably may appreciably impact appreciably impact future impact future career future career prospects career prospects and prospects and livelihoods and livelihoods of livelihoods of these of these persons.
tree..b rbek en ai rbek en ai systems en ai systems used ai systems used in systems used in employment used in employment workers in employment workers management employment workers management and workers management and access management and access to and access to self-employment access to self-employment notably to self-employment notably for self-employment notably for the notably for the recruitment for the recruitment and the recruitment and selection recruitment and selection of and selection of persons selection of persons for of persons for making persons for making decisions for making decisions on making decisions on promotion decisions on promotion and on promotion and termination promotion and termination and and termination and for termination and for task and for task allocation for task allocation based task allocation based on allocation based on individual based on individual behavior on individual behavior or individual behavior or personal behavior or personal traits or personal traits or personal traits or characteristics traits or characteristics monitoring or characteristics monitoring or characteristics monitoring or evaluation monitoring or evaluation of or evaluation of persons evaluation of persons in of persons in work-related persons in work-related contractual in work-related contractual relationships work-related contractual relationships should contractual relationships should also relationships should also be should also be classified also be classified as be classified as high-risk classified as high-risk since as high-risk since those high-risk since those systems since those systems may those systems may appreciably systems may appreciably impact may appreciably impact future appreciably impact future career impact future career prospects future career prospects and career prospects and livelihoods prospects and livelihoods of and livelihoods of these livelihoods of these persons.
relevant work-related work-related contractual contractual relationships relationships should should involve involve employees employees and and persons persons providing providing services services through through platforms platforms as as referred referred to to in in the the commission commission work work programme programme .
relevant work-related contractual work-related contractual relationships contractual relationships should relationships should involve should involve employees involve employees and employees and persons and persons providing persons providing services providing services through services through platforms through platforms as platforms as referred as referred to referred to in to in the in the commission the commission work commission work programme work programme .
relevant work-related contractual relationships work-related contractual relationships should contractual relationships should involve relationships should involve employees should involve employees and involve employees and persons employees and persons providing and persons providing services persons providing services through providing services through platforms services through platforms as through platforms as referred platforms as referred to as referred to in referred to in the to in the commission in the commission work the commission work programme commission work programme .
such persons persons should should in in principle principle not not be be considered considered users users within within the the meaning meaning of of this this regulation.
such persons should persons should in should in principle in principle not principle not be not be considered be considered users considered users within users within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of this of this regulation.
such persons should in persons should in principle should in principle not in principle not be principle not be considered not be considered users be considered users within considered users within the users within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of this meaning of this regulation.
throughout the the recruitment recruitment process process and and in in the the evaluation evaluation promotion promotion or or retention retention of of persons persons in in work-related work-related contractual contractual relationships relationships such such systems systems may may perpetuate perpetuate historical historical patterns patterns of of discrimination discrimination for for example example against against women women certain certain age age groups groups persons persons with with disabilities disabilities or or persons persons of of certain certain racial racial or or ethnic ethnic origins origins or or sexual sexual orientation.
throughout the recruitment the recruitment process recruitment process and process and in and in the in the evaluation the evaluation promotion evaluation promotion or promotion or retention or retention of retention of persons of persons in persons in work-related in work-related contractual work-related contractual relationships contractual relationships such relationships such systems such systems may systems may perpetuate may perpetuate historical perpetuate historical patterns historical patterns of patterns of discrimination of discrimination for discrimination for example for example against example against women against women certain women certain age certain age groups age groups persons groups persons with persons with disabilities with disabilities or disabilities or persons or persons of persons of certain of certain racial certain racial or racial or ethnic or ethnic origins ethnic origins or origins or sexual or sexual orientation.
throughout the recruitment process the recruitment process and recruitment process and in process and in the and in the evaluation in the evaluation promotion the evaluation promotion or evaluation promotion or retention promotion or retention of or retention of persons retention of persons in of persons in work-related persons in work-related contractual in work-related contractual relationships work-related contractual relationships such contractual relationships such systems relationships such systems may such systems may perpetuate systems may perpetuate historical may perpetuate historical patterns perpetuate historical patterns of historical patterns of discrimination patterns of discrimination for of discrimination for example discrimination for example against for example against women example against women certain against women certain age women certain age groups certain age groups persons age groups persons with groups persons with disabilities persons with disabilities or with disabilities or persons disabilities or persons of or persons of certain persons of certain racial of certain racial or certain racial or ethnic racial or ethnic origins or ethnic origins or ethnic origins or sexual origins or sexual orientation.
ai systems systems used used to to monitor monitor the the performance performance and and behaviour behaviour of of these these persons persons may may also also impact impact their their rights rights to to data data protection protection and and privacy.
ai systems used systems used to used to monitor to monitor the monitor the performance the performance and performance and behaviour and behaviour of behaviour of these of these persons these persons may persons may also may also impact also impact their impact their rights their rights to rights to data to data protection data protection and protection and privacy.
ai systems used to systems used to monitor used to monitor the to monitor the performance monitor the performance and the performance and behaviour performance and behaviour of and behaviour of these behaviour of these persons of these persons may these persons may also persons may also impact may also impact their also impact their rights impact their rights to their rights to data rights to data protection to data protection and data protection and privacy.
tree..b rbek rbek en en another another area area in in which which the the use use of of ai ai systems systems deserves deserves special special consideration consideration is is the the access access to to and and enjoyment enjoyment of of certain certain essential essential private private and and public public services services and and benefits benefits necessary necessary for for people people to to fully fully participate participate in in society society or or to to improve improve one’s one’s standard standard of of living.
tree..b rbek en rbek en another en another area another area in area in which in which the which the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems deserves systems deserves special deserves special consideration special consideration is consideration is the is the access the access to access to and to and enjoyment and enjoyment of enjoyment of certain of certain essential certain essential private essential private and private and public and public services public services and services and benefits and benefits necessary benefits necessary for necessary for people for people to people to fully to fully participate fully participate in participate in society in society or society or to or to improve to improve one’s improve one’s standard one’s standard of standard of living.
tree..b rbek en another rbek en another area en another area in another area in which area in which the in which the use which the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems deserves ai systems deserves special systems deserves special consideration deserves special consideration is special consideration is the consideration is the access is the access to the access to and access to and enjoyment to and enjoyment of and enjoyment of certain enjoyment of certain essential of certain essential private certain essential private and essential private and public private and public services and public services and public services and benefits services and benefits necessary and benefits necessary for benefits necessary for people necessary for people to for people to fully people to fully participate to fully participate in fully participate in society participate in society or in society or to society or to improve or to improve one’s to improve one’s standard improve one’s standard of one’s standard of living.
in particular particular ai ai systems systems used used to to evaluate evaluate the the credit credit score score or or creditworthiness creditworthiness of of natural natural persons persons should should be be classified classified as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems since since they they determine determine those those persons’ persons’ access access to to financial financial resources resources or or essential essential services services such such as as housing housing electricity electricity and and telecommunication telecommunication services.
in particular ai particular ai systems ai systems used systems used to used to evaluate to evaluate the evaluate the credit the credit score credit score or score or creditworthiness or creditworthiness of creditworthiness of natural of natural persons natural persons should persons should be should be classified be classified as classified as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems since systems since they since they determine they determine those determine those persons’ those persons’ access persons’ access to access to financial to financial resources financial resources or resources or essential or essential services essential services such services such as such as housing as housing electricity housing electricity and electricity and telecommunication and telecommunication services.
in particular ai systems particular ai systems used ai systems used to systems used to evaluate used to evaluate the to evaluate the credit evaluate the credit score the credit score or credit score or creditworthiness score or creditworthiness of or creditworthiness of natural creditworthiness of natural persons of natural persons should natural persons should be persons should be classified should be classified as be classified as high-risk classified as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems since ai systems since they systems since they determine since they determine those they determine those persons’ determine those persons’ access those persons’ access to persons’ access to financial access to financial resources to financial resources or financial resources or essential resources or essential services or essential services such essential services such as services such as housing such as housing electricity as housing electricity and housing electricity and telecommunication electricity and telecommunication services.
ai systems systems used used for for this this purpose purpose may may lead lead to to discrimination discrimination of of persons persons or or groups groups and and perpetuate perpetuate historical historical patterns patterns of of discrimination discrimination for for example example based based on on racial racial or or ethnic ethnic origins origins disabilities disabilities age age sexual sexual orientation orientation or or create create new new forms forms of of discriminatory discriminatory impacts.
ai systems used systems used for used for this for this purpose this purpose may purpose may lead may lead to lead to discrimination to discrimination of discrimination of persons of persons or persons or groups or groups and groups and perpetuate and perpetuate historical perpetuate historical patterns historical patterns of patterns of discrimination of discrimination for discrimination for example for example based example based on based on racial on racial or racial or ethnic or ethnic origins ethnic origins disabilities origins disabilities age disabilities age sexual age sexual orientation sexual orientation or orientation or create or create new create new forms new forms of forms of discriminatory of discriminatory impacts.
ai systems used for systems used for this used for this purpose for this purpose may this purpose may lead purpose may lead to may lead to discrimination lead to discrimination of to discrimination of persons discrimination of persons or of persons or groups persons or groups and or groups and perpetuate groups and perpetuate historical and perpetuate historical patterns perpetuate historical patterns of historical patterns of discrimination patterns of discrimination for of discrimination for example discrimination for example based for example based on example based on racial based on racial or on racial or ethnic racial or ethnic origins or ethnic origins disabilities ethnic origins disabilities age origins disabilities age sexual disabilities age sexual orientation age sexual orientation or sexual orientation or create orientation or create new or create new forms create new forms of new forms of discriminatory forms of discriminatory impacts.
considering the the very very limited limited scale scale of of the the impact impact and and the the available available alternatives alternatives on on the the market market it it is is appropriate appropriate to to exempt exempt ai ai systems systems for for the the purpose purpose of of creditworthiness creditworthiness assessment assessment and and credit credit scoring scoring when when put put into into service service by by micro micro or or small small entreprises entreprises as as defined defined in in the the annex annex of of commission commission recommendation recommendation ec ec for for their their own own use.
considering the very the very limited very limited scale limited scale of scale of the of the impact the impact and impact and the and the available the available alternatives available alternatives on alternatives on the on the market the market it market it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to exempt to exempt ai exempt ai systems ai systems for systems for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of creditworthiness of creditworthiness assessment creditworthiness assessment and assessment and credit and credit scoring credit scoring when scoring when put when put into put into service into service by service by micro by micro or micro or small or small entreprises small entreprises as entreprises as defined as defined in defined in the in the annex the annex of annex of commission of commission recommendation commission recommendation ec recommendation ec for ec for their for their own their own use.
considering the very limited the very limited scale very limited scale of limited scale of the scale of the impact of the impact and the impact and the impact and the available and the available alternatives the available alternatives on available alternatives on the alternatives on the market on the market it the market it is market it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to exempt appropriate to exempt ai to exempt ai systems exempt ai systems for ai systems for the systems for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of creditworthiness purpose of creditworthiness assessment of creditworthiness assessment and creditworthiness assessment and credit assessment and credit scoring and credit scoring when credit scoring when put scoring when put into when put into service put into service by into service by micro service by micro or by micro or small micro or small entreprises or small entreprises as small entreprises as defined entreprises as defined in as defined in the defined in the annex in the annex of the annex of commission annex of commission recommendation of commission recommendation ec commission recommendation ec for recommendation ec for their ec for their own for their own use.
natural persons persons applying applying for for or or receiving receiving essential essential public public assistance assistance benefits benefits and and services services from from public public authorities authorities are are typically typically dependent dependent on on those those benefits benefits and and services services and and in in a a vulnerable vulnerable position position in in relation relation to to the the responsible responsible authorities.
natural persons applying persons applying for applying for or for or receiving or receiving essential receiving essential public essential public assistance public assistance benefits assistance benefits and benefits and services and services from services from public from public authorities public authorities are authorities are typically are typically dependent typically dependent on dependent on those on those benefits those benefits and benefits and services and services and services and in and in a in a vulnerable a vulnerable position vulnerable position in position in relation in relation to relation to the to the responsible the responsible authorities.
natural persons applying for persons applying for or applying for or receiving for or receiving essential or receiving essential public receiving essential public assistance essential public assistance benefits public assistance benefits and assistance benefits and services benefits and services from and services from public services from public authorities from public authorities are public authorities are typically authorities are typically dependent are typically dependent on typically dependent on those dependent on those benefits on those benefits and those benefits and services benefits and services and and services and in services and in a and in a vulnerable in a vulnerable position a vulnerable position in vulnerable position in relation position in relation to in relation to the relation to the responsible to the responsible authorities.
if ai ai systems systems are are used used for for determining determining whether whether such such benefits benefits and and services services should should be be denied denied reduced reduced revoked revoked or or reclaimed reclaimed by by authorities authorities including including whether whether beneficiaries beneficiaries are are legitimately legitimately entitled entitled to to such such benefits benefits or or services services those those systems systems may may have have a a significant significant impact impact on on persons’ persons’ livelihood livelihood and and may may infringe infringe their their fundamental fundamental rights rights such such as as the the right right to to social social protection protection non-discrimination non-discrimination human human dignity dignity or or an an effective effective remedy.
if ai systems ai systems are systems are used are used for used for determining for determining whether determining whether such whether such benefits such benefits and benefits and services and services should services should be should be denied be denied reduced denied reduced revoked reduced revoked or revoked or reclaimed or reclaimed by reclaimed by authorities by authorities including authorities including whether including whether beneficiaries whether beneficiaries are beneficiaries are legitimately are legitimately entitled legitimately entitled to entitled to such to such benefits such benefits or benefits or services or services those services those systems those systems may systems may have may have a have a significant a significant impact significant impact on impact on persons’ on persons’ livelihood persons’ livelihood and livelihood and may and may infringe may infringe their infringe their fundamental their fundamental rights fundamental rights such rights such as such as the as the right the right to right to social to social protection social protection non-discrimination protection non-discrimination human non-discrimination human dignity human dignity or dignity or an or an effective an effective remedy.
if ai systems are ai systems are used systems are used for are used for determining used for determining whether for determining whether such determining whether such benefits whether such benefits and such benefits and services benefits and services should and services should be services should be denied should be denied reduced be denied reduced revoked denied reduced revoked or reduced revoked or reclaimed revoked or reclaimed by or reclaimed by authorities reclaimed by authorities including by authorities including whether authorities including whether beneficiaries including whether beneficiaries are whether beneficiaries are legitimately beneficiaries are legitimately entitled are legitimately entitled to legitimately entitled to such entitled to such benefits to such benefits or such benefits or services benefits or services those or services those systems services those systems may those systems may have systems may have a may have a significant have a significant impact a significant impact on significant impact on persons’ impact on persons’ livelihood on persons’ livelihood and persons’ livelihood and may livelihood and may infringe and may infringe their may infringe their fundamental infringe their fundamental rights their fundamental rights such fundamental rights such as rights such as the such as the right as the right to the right to social right to social protection to social protection non-discrimination social protection non-discrimination human protection non-discrimination human dignity non-discrimination human dignity or human dignity or an dignity or an effective or an effective remedy.
those systems systems should should therefore therefore be be classified classified as as high-risk.
those systems should systems should therefore should therefore be therefore be classified be classified as classified as high-risk.
those systems should therefore systems should therefore be should therefore be classified therefore be classified as be classified as high-risk.
nonetheless this this regulation regulation should should not not hamper hamper the the development development and and use use of of innovative innovative approaches approaches in in the the public public administration administration which which would would stand stand to to benefit benefit from from a a wider wider use use of of compliant compliant and and safe safe ai ai systems systems provided provided that that those those systems systems do do not not entail entail a a high high risk risk to to legal legal and and natural natural persons.
nonetheless this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not hamper not hamper the hamper the development the development and development and use and use of use of innovative of innovative approaches innovative approaches in approaches in the in the public the public administration public administration which administration which would which would stand would stand to stand to benefit to benefit from benefit from a from a wider a wider use wider use of use of compliant of compliant and compliant and safe and safe ai safe ai systems ai systems provided systems provided that provided that those that those systems those systems do systems do not do not entail not entail a entail a high a high risk high risk to risk to legal to legal and legal and natural and natural persons.
nonetheless this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not hamper should not hamper the not hamper the development hamper the development and the development and use development and use of and use of innovative use of innovative approaches of innovative approaches in innovative approaches in the approaches in the public in the public administration the public administration which public administration which would administration which would stand which would stand to would stand to benefit stand to benefit from to benefit from a benefit from a wider from a wider use a wider use of wider use of compliant use of compliant and of compliant and safe compliant and safe ai and safe ai systems safe ai systems provided ai systems provided that systems provided that those provided that those systems that those systems do those systems do not systems do not entail do not entail a not entail a high entail a high risk a high risk to high risk to legal risk to legal and to legal and natural legal and natural persons.
finally ai ai systems systems used used to to dispatch dispatch or or establish establish priority priority in in the the dispatching dispatching of of emergency emergency first first response response services services should should also also be be classified classified as as high-risk high-risk since since they they make make decisions decisions in in very very critical critical situations situations for for the the life life and and health health of of persons persons and and their their property.
finally ai systems ai systems used systems used to used to dispatch to dispatch or dispatch or establish or establish priority establish priority in priority in the in the dispatching the dispatching of dispatching of emergency of emergency first emergency first response first response services response services should services should also should also be also be classified be classified as classified as high-risk as high-risk since high-risk since they since they make they make decisions make decisions in decisions in very in very critical very critical situations critical situations for situations for the for the life the life and life and health and health of health of persons of persons and persons and their and their property.
finally ai systems used ai systems used to systems used to dispatch used to dispatch or to dispatch or establish dispatch or establish priority or establish priority in establish priority in the priority in the dispatching in the dispatching of the dispatching of emergency dispatching of emergency first of emergency first response emergency first response services first response services should response services should also services should also be should also be classified also be classified as be classified as high-risk classified as high-risk since as high-risk since they high-risk since they make since they make decisions they make decisions in make decisions in very decisions in very critical in very critical situations very critical situations for critical situations for the situations for the life for the life and the life and health life and health of and health of persons health of persons and of persons and their persons and their property.
ai systems systems are are also also increasingly increasingly used used for for risk risk assessment assessment in in relation relation to to natural natural persons persons and and pricing pricing in in the the case case of of life life and and health health insurance insurance which which if if not not duly duly designed designed developed developed and and used used can can lead lead to to serious serious consequences consequences for for people’s people’s life life and and health health including including financial financial exclusion exclusion and and discrimination.
ai systems are systems are also are also increasingly also increasingly used increasingly used for used for risk for risk assessment risk assessment in assessment in relation in relation to relation to natural to natural persons natural persons and persons and pricing and pricing in pricing in the in the case the case of case of life of life and life and health and health insurance health insurance which insurance which if which if not if not duly not duly designed duly designed developed designed developed and developed and used and used can used can lead can lead to lead to serious to serious consequences serious consequences for consequences for people’s for people’s life people’s life and life and health and health including health including financial including financial exclusion financial exclusion and exclusion and discrimination.
ai systems are also systems are also increasingly are also increasingly used also increasingly used for increasingly used for risk used for risk assessment for risk assessment in risk assessment in relation assessment in relation to in relation to natural relation to natural persons to natural persons and natural persons and pricing persons and pricing in and pricing in the pricing in the case in the case of the case of life case of life and of life and health life and health insurance and health insurance which health insurance which if insurance which if not which if not duly if not duly designed not duly designed developed duly designed developed and designed developed and used developed and used can and used can lead used can lead to can lead to serious lead to serious consequences to serious consequences for serious consequences for people’s consequences for people’s life for people’s life and people’s life and health life and health including and health including financial health including financial exclusion including financial exclusion and financial exclusion and discrimination.
to ensure ensure a a consistent consistent approach approach within within the the financial financial services services sector sector the the above above mentioned mentioned exception exception for for micro micro or or small small enterprises enterprises for for their their own own use use should should apply apply insofar insofar as as they they themselves themselves provide provide and and put put into into service service an an ai ai system system for for the the purpose purpose of of selling selling their their own own insurance insurance products.
to ensure a ensure a consistent a consistent approach consistent approach within approach within the within the financial the financial services financial services sector services sector the sector the above the above mentioned above mentioned exception mentioned exception for exception for micro for micro or micro or small or small enterprises small enterprises for enterprises for their for their own their own use own use should use should apply should apply insofar apply insofar as insofar as they as they themselves they themselves provide themselves provide and provide and put and put into put into service into service an service an ai an ai system ai system for system for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of selling of selling their selling their own their own insurance own insurance products.
to ensure a consistent ensure a consistent approach a consistent approach within consistent approach within the approach within the financial within the financial services the financial services sector financial services sector the services sector the above sector the above mentioned the above mentioned exception above mentioned exception for mentioned exception for micro exception for micro or for micro or small micro or small enterprises or small enterprises for small enterprises for their enterprises for their own for their own use their own use should own use should apply use should apply insofar should apply insofar as apply insofar as they insofar as they themselves as they themselves provide they themselves provide and themselves provide and put provide and put into and put into service put into service an into service an ai service an ai system an ai system for ai system for the system for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of selling purpose of selling their of selling their own selling their own insurance their own insurance products.
tree..b rbek rbek en en actions actions by by law law enforcement enforcement authorities authorities involving involving certain certain uses uses of of ai ai systems systems are are characterised characterised by by a a significant significant degree degree of of power power imbalance imbalance and and may may lead lead to to surveillance surveillance arrest arrest or or deprivation deprivation of of a a natural natural person’s person’s liberty liberty as as well well as as other other adverse adverse impacts impacts on on fundamental fundamental rights rights guaranteed guaranteed in in the the charter.
tree..b rbek en rbek en actions en actions by actions by law by law enforcement law enforcement authorities enforcement authorities involving authorities involving certain involving certain uses certain uses of uses of ai of ai systems ai systems are systems are characterised are characterised by characterised by a by a significant a significant degree significant degree of degree of power of power imbalance power imbalance and imbalance and may and may lead may lead to lead to surveillance to surveillance arrest surveillance arrest or arrest or deprivation or deprivation of deprivation of a of a natural a natural person’s natural person’s liberty person’s liberty as liberty as well as well as well as other as other adverse other adverse impacts adverse impacts on impacts on fundamental on fundamental rights fundamental rights guaranteed rights guaranteed in guaranteed in the in the charter.
tree..b rbek en actions rbek en actions by en actions by law actions by law enforcement by law enforcement authorities law enforcement authorities involving enforcement authorities involving certain authorities involving certain uses involving certain uses of certain uses of ai uses of ai systems of ai systems are ai systems are characterised systems are characterised by are characterised by a characterised by a significant by a significant degree a significant degree of significant degree of power degree of power imbalance of power imbalance and power imbalance and may imbalance and may lead and may lead to may lead to surveillance lead to surveillance arrest to surveillance arrest or surveillance arrest or deprivation arrest or deprivation of or deprivation of a deprivation of a natural of a natural person’s a natural person’s liberty natural person’s liberty as person’s liberty as well liberty as well as as well as other well as other adverse as other adverse impacts other adverse impacts on adverse impacts on fundamental impacts on fundamental rights on fundamental rights guaranteed fundamental rights guaranteed in rights guaranteed in the guaranteed in the charter.
in particular particular if if the the ai ai system system is is not not trained trained with with high high quality quality data data does does not not meet meet adequate adequate requirements requirements in in terms terms of of its its accuracy accuracy or or robustness robustness or or is is not not properly properly designed designed and and tested tested before before being being put put on on the the market market or or otherwise otherwise put put into into service service it it may may single single out out people people in in a a discriminatory discriminatory or or otherwise otherwise incorrect incorrect or or unjust unjust manner.
in particular if particular if the if the ai the ai system ai system is system is not is not trained not trained with trained with high with high quality high quality data quality data does data does not does not meet not meet adequate meet adequate requirements adequate requirements in requirements in terms in terms of terms of its of its accuracy its accuracy or accuracy or robustness or robustness or robustness or is or is not is not properly not properly designed properly designed and designed and tested and tested before tested before being before being put being put on put on the on the market the market or market or otherwise or otherwise put otherwise put into put into service into service it service it may it may single may single out single out people out people in people in a in a discriminatory a discriminatory or discriminatory or otherwise or otherwise incorrect otherwise incorrect or incorrect or unjust or unjust manner.
in particular if the particular if the ai if the ai system the ai system is ai system is not system is not trained is not trained with not trained with high trained with high quality with high quality data high quality data does quality data does not data does not meet does not meet adequate not meet adequate requirements meet adequate requirements in adequate requirements in terms requirements in terms of in terms of its terms of its accuracy of its accuracy or its accuracy or robustness accuracy or robustness or or robustness or is robustness or is not or is not properly is not properly designed not properly designed and properly designed and tested designed and tested before and tested before being tested before being put before being put on being put on the put on the market on the market or the market or otherwise market or otherwise put or otherwise put into otherwise put into service put into service it into service it may service it may single it may single out may single out people single out people in out people in a people in a discriminatory in a discriminatory or a discriminatory or otherwise discriminatory or otherwise incorrect or otherwise incorrect or otherwise incorrect or unjust incorrect or unjust manner.
furthermore the the exercise exercise of of important important procedural procedural fundamental fundamental rights rights such such as as the the right right to to an an effective effective remedy remedy and and to to a a fair fair trial trial as as well well as as the the right right of of defence defence and and the the presumption presumption of of innocence innocence could could be be hampered hampered in in particular particular where where such such ai ai systems systems are are not not sufficiently sufficiently transparent transparent explainable explainable and and documented.
furthermore the exercise the exercise of exercise of important of important procedural important procedural fundamental procedural fundamental rights fundamental rights such rights such as such as the as the right the right to right to an to an effective an effective remedy effective remedy and remedy and to and to a to a fair a fair trial fair trial as trial as well as well as well as the as the right the right of right of defence of defence and defence and the and the presumption the presumption of presumption of innocence of innocence could innocence could be could be hampered be hampered in hampered in particular in particular where particular where such where such ai such ai systems ai systems are systems are not are not sufficiently not sufficiently transparent sufficiently transparent explainable transparent explainable and explainable and documented.
furthermore the exercise of the exercise of important exercise of important procedural of important procedural fundamental important procedural fundamental rights procedural fundamental rights such fundamental rights such as rights such as the such as the right as the right to the right to an right to an effective to an effective remedy an effective remedy and effective remedy and to remedy and to a and to a fair to a fair trial a fair trial as fair trial as well trial as well as as well as the well as the right as the right of the right of defence right of defence and of defence and the defence and the presumption and the presumption of the presumption of innocence presumption of innocence could of innocence could be innocence could be hampered could be hampered in be hampered in particular hampered in particular where in particular where such particular where such ai where such ai systems such ai systems are ai systems are not systems are not sufficiently are not sufficiently transparent not sufficiently transparent explainable sufficiently transparent explainable and transparent explainable and documented.
it is is therefore therefore appropriate appropriate to to classify classify as as high-risk high-risk a a number number of of ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used in in the the law law enforcement enforcement context context where where accuracy accuracy reliability reliability and and transparency transparency is is particularly particularly important important to to avoid avoid adverse adverse impacts impacts retain retain public public trust trust and and ensure ensure accountability accountability and and effective effective redress.
it is therefore is therefore appropriate therefore appropriate to appropriate to classify to classify as classify as high-risk as high-risk a high-risk a number a number of number of ai of ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used in used in the in the law the law enforcement law enforcement context enforcement context where context where accuracy where accuracy reliability accuracy reliability and reliability and transparency and transparency is transparency is particularly is particularly important particularly important to important to avoid to avoid adverse avoid adverse impacts adverse impacts retain impacts retain public retain public trust public trust and trust and ensure and ensure accountability ensure accountability and accountability and effective and effective redress.
it is therefore appropriate is therefore appropriate to therefore appropriate to classify appropriate to classify as to classify as high-risk classify as high-risk a as high-risk a number high-risk a number of a number of ai number of ai systems of ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used in be used in the used in the law in the law enforcement the law enforcement context law enforcement context where enforcement context where accuracy context where accuracy reliability where accuracy reliability and accuracy reliability and transparency reliability and transparency is and transparency is particularly transparency is particularly important is particularly important to particularly important to avoid important to avoid adverse to avoid adverse impacts avoid adverse impacts retain adverse impacts retain public impacts retain public trust retain public trust and public trust and ensure trust and ensure accountability and ensure accountability and ensure accountability and effective accountability and effective redress.
in view view of of the the nature nature of of the the activities activities in in question question and and the the risks risks relating relating thereto thereto those those high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems should should include include in in particular particular ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used by by law law enforcement enforcement authorities authorities for for individual individual risk risk assessments assessments polygraphs polygraphs and and similar similar tools tools or or to to detect detect the the emotional emotional state state of of natural natural person person for for the the evaluation evaluation of of the the reliability reliability of of evidence evidence in in criminal criminal proceedings proceedings for for predicting predicting the the occurrence occurrence or or reoccurrence reoccurrence of of an an actual actual or or potential potential criminal criminal offence offence based based on on profiling profiling of of natural natural persons persons or or assessing assessing personality personality traits traits and and characteristics characteristics or or past past criminal criminal behaviour behaviour of of natural natural persons persons or or groups groups for for profiling profiling in in the the course course of of detection detection investigation investigation or or prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences.
in view of view of the of the nature the nature of nature of the of the activities the activities in activities in question in question and question and the and the risks the risks relating risks relating thereto relating thereto those thereto those high-risk those high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should include should include in include in particular in particular ai particular ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used by used by law by law enforcement law enforcement authorities enforcement authorities for authorities for individual for individual risk individual risk assessments risk assessments polygraphs assessments polygraphs and polygraphs and similar and similar tools similar tools or tools or to or to detect to detect the detect the emotional the emotional state emotional state of state of natural of natural person natural person for person for the for the evaluation the evaluation of evaluation of the of the reliability the reliability of reliability of evidence of evidence in evidence in criminal in criminal proceedings criminal proceedings for proceedings for predicting for predicting the predicting the occurrence the occurrence or occurrence or reoccurrence or reoccurrence of reoccurrence of an of an actual an actual or actual or potential or potential criminal potential criminal offence criminal offence based offence based on based on profiling on profiling of profiling of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or assessing or assessing personality assessing personality traits personality traits and traits and characteristics and characteristics or characteristics or past or past criminal past criminal behaviour criminal behaviour of behaviour of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or groups or groups for groups for profiling for profiling in profiling in the in the course the course of course of detection of detection investigation detection investigation or investigation or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences.
in view of the view of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the activities of the activities in the activities in question activities in question and in question and the question and the risks and the risks relating the risks relating thereto risks relating thereto those relating thereto those high-risk thereto those high-risk ai those high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems should ai systems should include systems should include in should include in particular include in particular ai in particular ai systems particular ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used by be used by law used by law enforcement by law enforcement authorities law enforcement authorities for enforcement authorities for individual authorities for individual risk for individual risk assessments individual risk assessments polygraphs risk assessments polygraphs and assessments polygraphs and similar polygraphs and similar tools and similar tools or similar tools or to tools or to detect or to detect the to detect the emotional detect the emotional state the emotional state of emotional state of natural state of natural person of natural person for natural person for the person for the evaluation for the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the reliability of the reliability of the reliability of evidence reliability of evidence in of evidence in criminal evidence in criminal proceedings in criminal proceedings for criminal proceedings for predicting proceedings for predicting the for predicting the occurrence predicting the occurrence or the occurrence or reoccurrence occurrence or reoccurrence of or reoccurrence of an reoccurrence of an actual of an actual or an actual or potential actual or potential criminal or potential criminal offence potential criminal offence based criminal offence based on offence based on profiling based on profiling of on profiling of natural profiling of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or assessing persons or assessing personality or assessing personality traits assessing personality traits and personality traits and characteristics traits and characteristics or and characteristics or past characteristics or past criminal or past criminal behaviour past criminal behaviour of criminal behaviour of natural behaviour of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or groups persons or groups for or groups for profiling groups for profiling in for profiling in the profiling in the course in the course of the course of detection course of detection investigation of detection investigation or detection investigation or prosecution investigation or prosecution of or prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences.
ai systems systems specifically specifically intended intended to to be be used used for for administrative administrative proceedings proceedings by by tax tax and and customs customs authorities authorities as as well well as as by by financial financial intelligence intelligence units units carrying carrying out out adminstrative adminstrative tasks tasks analysing analysing information information pursuant pursuant to to union union anti-money anti-money laundering laundering legislation legislation should should not not be be considered considered high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems used used by by law law enforcement enforcement authorities authorities for for the the purposes purposes of of prevention prevention detection detection investigation investigation and and prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences.
ai systems specifically systems specifically intended specifically intended to intended to be to be used be used for used for administrative for administrative proceedings administrative proceedings by proceedings by tax by tax and tax and customs and customs authorities customs authorities as authorities as well as well as well as by as by financial by financial intelligence financial intelligence units intelligence units carrying units carrying out carrying out adminstrative out adminstrative tasks adminstrative tasks analysing tasks analysing information analysing information pursuant information pursuant to pursuant to union to union anti-money union anti-money laundering anti-money laundering legislation laundering legislation should legislation should not should not be not be considered be considered high-risk considered high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems used systems used by used by law by law enforcement law enforcement authorities enforcement authorities for authorities for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of prevention of prevention detection prevention detection investigation detection investigation and investigation and prosecution and prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences.
ai systems specifically intended systems specifically intended to specifically intended to be intended to be used to be used for be used for administrative used for administrative proceedings for administrative proceedings by administrative proceedings by tax proceedings by tax and by tax and customs tax and customs authorities and customs authorities as customs authorities as well authorities as well as as well as by well as by financial as by financial intelligence by financial intelligence units financial intelligence units carrying intelligence units carrying out units carrying out adminstrative carrying out adminstrative tasks out adminstrative tasks analysing adminstrative tasks analysing information tasks analysing information pursuant analysing information pursuant to information pursuant to union pursuant to union anti-money to union anti-money laundering union anti-money laundering legislation anti-money laundering legislation should laundering legislation should not legislation should not be should not be considered not be considered high-risk be considered high-risk ai considered high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems used ai systems used by systems used by law used by law enforcement by law enforcement authorities law enforcement authorities for enforcement authorities for the authorities for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of prevention purposes of prevention detection of prevention detection investigation prevention detection investigation and detection investigation and prosecution investigation and prosecution of and prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences.
tree..b rbek rbek en en ai ai systems systems used used in in migration migration asylum asylum and and border border control control management management affect affect people people who who are are often often in in particularly particularly vulnerable vulnerable position position and and who who are are dependent dependent on on the the outcome outcome of of the the actions actions of of the the competent competent public public authorities.
tree..b rbek en rbek en ai en ai systems ai systems used systems used in used in migration in migration asylum migration asylum and asylum and border and border control border control management control management affect management affect people affect people who people who are who are often are often in often in particularly in particularly vulnerable particularly vulnerable position vulnerable position and position and who and who are who are dependent are dependent on dependent on the on the outcome the outcome of outcome of the of the actions the actions of actions of the of the competent the competent public competent public authorities.
tree..b rbek en ai rbek en ai systems en ai systems used ai systems used in systems used in migration used in migration asylum in migration asylum and migration asylum and border asylum and border control and border control management border control management affect control management affect people management affect people who affect people who are people who are often who are often in are often in particularly often in particularly vulnerable in particularly vulnerable position particularly vulnerable position and vulnerable position and who position and who are and who are dependent who are dependent on are dependent on the dependent on the outcome on the outcome of the outcome of the outcome of the actions of the actions of the actions of the actions of the competent of the competent public the competent public authorities.
the accuracy accuracy non-discriminatory non-discriminatory nature nature and and transparency transparency of of the the ai ai systems systems used used in in those those contexts contexts are are therefore therefore particularly particularly important important to to guarantee guarantee the the respect respect of of the the fundamental fundamental rights rights of of the the affected affected persons persons notably notably their their rights rights to to free free movement movement non-discrimination non-discrimination protection protection of of private private life life and and personal personal data data international international protection protection and and good good administration.
the accuracy non-discriminatory accuracy non-discriminatory nature non-discriminatory nature and nature and transparency and transparency of transparency of the of the ai the ai systems ai systems used systems used in used in those in those contexts those contexts are contexts are therefore are therefore particularly therefore particularly important particularly important to important to guarantee to guarantee the guarantee the respect the respect of respect of the of the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of the of the affected the affected persons affected persons notably persons notably their notably their rights their rights to rights to free to free movement free movement non-discrimination movement non-discrimination protection non-discrimination protection of protection of private of private life private life and life and personal and personal data personal data international data international protection international protection and protection and good and good administration.
the accuracy non-discriminatory nature accuracy non-discriminatory nature and non-discriminatory nature and transparency nature and transparency of and transparency of the transparency of the ai of the ai systems the ai systems used ai systems used in systems used in those used in those contexts in those contexts are those contexts are therefore contexts are therefore particularly are therefore particularly important therefore particularly important to particularly important to guarantee important to guarantee the to guarantee the respect guarantee the respect of the respect of the respect of the fundamental of the fundamental rights the fundamental rights of fundamental rights of the rights of the affected of the affected persons the affected persons notably affected persons notably their persons notably their rights notably their rights to their rights to free rights to free movement to free movement non-discrimination free movement non-discrimination protection movement non-discrimination protection of non-discrimination protection of private protection of private life of private life and private life and personal life and personal data and personal data international personal data international protection data international protection and international protection and good protection and good administration.
it is is therefore therefore appropriate appropriate to to classify classify as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used by by the the competent competent public public authorities authorities charged charged with with tasks tasks in in the the fields fields of of migration migration asylum asylum and and border border control control management management as as polygraphs polygraphs and and similar similar tools tools or or to to detect detect the the emotional emotional state state of of a a natural natural person person for for assessing assessing certain certain risks risks posed posed by by natural natural persons persons entering entering the the territory territory of of a a member member state state or or applying applying for for visa visa or or asylum asylum for for assisting assisting competent competent public public authorities authorities for for the the examination examination of of applications applications for for asylum asylum visa visa and and residence residence permits permits and and associated associated complaints complaints with with regard regard to to the the objective objective to to establish establish the the eligibility eligibility of of the the natural natural persons persons applying applying for for a a status.
it is therefore is therefore appropriate therefore appropriate to appropriate to classify to classify as classify as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used by used by the by the competent the competent public competent public authorities public authorities charged authorities charged with charged with tasks with tasks in tasks in the in the fields the fields of fields of migration of migration asylum migration asylum and asylum and border and border control border control management control management as management as polygraphs as polygraphs and polygraphs and similar and similar tools similar tools or tools or to or to detect to detect the detect the emotional the emotional state emotional state of state of a of a natural a natural person natural person for person for assessing for assessing certain assessing certain risks certain risks posed risks posed by posed by natural by natural persons natural persons entering persons entering the entering the territory the territory of territory of a of a member a member state member state or state or applying or applying for applying for visa for visa or visa or asylum or asylum for asylum for assisting for assisting competent assisting competent public competent public authorities public authorities for authorities for the for the examination the examination of examination of applications of applications for applications for asylum for asylum visa asylum visa and visa and residence and residence permits residence permits and permits and associated and associated complaints associated complaints with complaints with regard with regard to regard to the to the objective the objective to objective to establish to establish the establish the eligibility the eligibility of eligibility of the of the natural the natural persons natural persons applying persons applying for applying for a for a status.
it is therefore appropriate is therefore appropriate to therefore appropriate to classify appropriate to classify as to classify as high-risk classify as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used by be used by the used by the competent by the competent public the competent public authorities competent public authorities charged public authorities charged with authorities charged with tasks charged with tasks in with tasks in the tasks in the fields in the fields of the fields of migration fields of migration asylum of migration asylum and migration asylum and border asylum and border control and border control management border control management as control management as polygraphs management as polygraphs and as polygraphs and similar polygraphs and similar tools and similar tools or similar tools or to tools or to detect or to detect the to detect the emotional detect the emotional state the emotional state of emotional state of a state of a natural of a natural person a natural person for natural person for assessing person for assessing certain for assessing certain risks assessing certain risks posed certain risks posed by risks posed by natural posed by natural persons by natural persons entering natural persons entering the persons entering the territory entering the territory of the territory of a territory of a member of a member state a member state or member state or applying state or applying for or applying for visa applying for visa or for visa or asylum visa or asylum for or asylum for assisting asylum for assisting competent for assisting competent public assisting competent public authorities competent public authorities for public authorities for the authorities for the examination for the examination of the examination of applications examination of applications for of applications for asylum applications for asylum visa for asylum visa and asylum visa and residence visa and residence permits and residence permits and residence permits and associated permits and associated complaints and associated complaints with associated complaints with regard complaints with regard to with regard to the regard to the objective to the objective to the objective to establish objective to establish the to establish the eligibility establish the eligibility of the eligibility of the eligibility of the natural of the natural persons the natural persons applying natural persons applying for persons applying for a applying for a status.
ai systems systems in in the the area area of of migration migration asylum asylum and and border border control control management management covered covered by by this this regulation regulation should should comply comply with with the the relevant relevant procedural procedural requirements requirements set set by by the the directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council the the regulation regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and other other relevant relevant legislation.
ai systems in systems in the in the area the area of area of migration of migration asylum migration asylum and asylum and border and border control border control management control management covered management covered by covered by this by this regulation this regulation should regulation should comply should comply with comply with the with the relevant the relevant procedural relevant procedural requirements procedural requirements set requirements set by set by the by the directive the directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council the council the regulation the regulation ec regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and other and other relevant other relevant legislation.
ai systems in the systems in the area in the area of the area of migration area of migration asylum of migration asylum and migration asylum and border asylum and border control and border control management border control management covered control management covered by management covered by this covered by this regulation by this regulation should this regulation should comply regulation should comply with should comply with the comply with the relevant with the relevant procedural the relevant procedural requirements relevant procedural requirements set procedural requirements set by requirements set by the set by the directive by the directive eu the directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council the the council the regulation council the regulation ec the regulation ec no regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and other council and other relevant and other relevant legislation.
directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of june june on on common common procedures procedures for for granting granting and and withdrawing withdrawing international international protection protection oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of june of june on june on common on common procedures common procedures for procedures for granting for granting and granting and withdrawing and withdrawing international withdrawing international protection international protection oj protection oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of june council of june on of june on common june on common procedures on common procedures for common procedures for granting procedures for granting and for granting and withdrawing granting and withdrawing international and withdrawing international protection withdrawing international protection oj international protection oj l protection oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of july july establishing establishing a a community community code code on on visas visas visa visa code code oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of july of july establishing july establishing a establishing a community a community code community code on code on visas on visas visa visas visa code visa code oj code oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of july council of july establishing of july establishing a july establishing a community establishing a community code a community code on community code on visas code on visas visa on visas visa code visas visa code oj visa code oj l code oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en certain certain ai ai systems systems intended intended for for the the administration administration of of justice justice and and democratic democratic processes processes should should be be classified classified as as high-risk high-risk considering considering their their potentially potentially significant significant impact impact on on democracy democracy rule rule of of law law individual individual freedoms freedoms as as well well as as the the right right to to an an effective effective remedy remedy and and to to a a fair fair trial.
tree..b rbek en rbek en certain en certain ai certain ai systems ai systems intended systems intended for intended for the for the administration the administration of administration of justice of justice and justice and democratic and democratic processes democratic processes should processes should be should be classified be classified as classified as high-risk as high-risk considering high-risk considering their considering their potentially their potentially significant potentially significant impact significant impact on impact on democracy on democracy rule democracy rule of rule of law of law individual law individual freedoms individual freedoms as freedoms as well as well as well as the as the right the right to right to an to an effective an effective remedy effective remedy and remedy and to and to a to a fair a fair trial.
tree..b rbek en certain rbek en certain ai en certain ai systems certain ai systems intended ai systems intended for systems intended for the intended for the administration for the administration of the administration of justice administration of justice and of justice and democratic justice and democratic processes and democratic processes should democratic processes should be processes should be classified should be classified as be classified as high-risk classified as high-risk considering as high-risk considering their high-risk considering their potentially considering their potentially significant their potentially significant impact potentially significant impact on significant impact on democracy impact on democracy rule on democracy rule of democracy rule of law rule of law individual of law individual freedoms law individual freedoms as individual freedoms as well freedoms as well as as well as the well as the right as the right to the right to an right to an effective to an effective remedy an effective remedy and effective remedy and to remedy and to a and to a fair to a fair trial.
in particular particular to to address address the the risks risks of of potential potential biases biases errors errors and and opacity opacity it it is is appropriate appropriate to to qualify qualify as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems intended intended to to assist assist judicial judicial authorities authorities in in interpreting interpreting facts facts and and the the law law and and in in applying applying the the law law to to a a concrete concrete set set of of facts.
in particular to particular to address to address the address the risks the risks of risks of potential of potential biases potential biases errors biases errors and errors and opacity and opacity it opacity it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to qualify to qualify as qualify as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to assist to assist judicial assist judicial authorities judicial authorities in authorities in interpreting in interpreting facts interpreting facts and facts and the and the law the law and law and in and in applying in applying the applying the law the law to law to a to a concrete a concrete set concrete set of set of facts.
in particular to address particular to address the to address the risks address the risks of the risks of potential risks of potential biases of potential biases errors potential biases errors and biases errors and opacity errors and opacity it and opacity it is opacity it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to qualify appropriate to qualify as to qualify as high-risk qualify as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to assist intended to assist judicial to assist judicial authorities assist judicial authorities in judicial authorities in interpreting authorities in interpreting facts in interpreting facts and interpreting facts and the facts and the law and the law and the law and in law and in applying and in applying the in applying the law applying the law to the law to a law to a concrete to a concrete set a concrete set of concrete set of facts.
such qualification qualification should should not not extend extend however however to to ai ai systems systems intended intended for for purely purely ancillary ancillary administrative administrative activities activities that that do do not not affect affect the the actual actual administration administration of of justice justice in in individual individual cases cases such such as as anonymisation anonymisation or or pseudonymisation pseudonymisation of of judicial judicial decisions decisions documents documents or or data data communication communication between between personnel personnel administrative administrative tasks.
such qualification should qualification should not should not extend not extend however extend however to however to ai to ai systems ai systems intended systems intended for intended for purely for purely ancillary purely ancillary administrative ancillary administrative activities administrative activities that activities that do that do not do not affect not affect the affect the actual the actual administration actual administration of administration of justice of justice in justice in individual in individual cases individual cases such cases such as such as anonymisation as anonymisation or anonymisation or pseudonymisation or pseudonymisation of pseudonymisation of judicial of judicial decisions judicial decisions documents decisions documents or documents or data or data communication data communication between communication between personnel between personnel administrative personnel administrative tasks.
such qualification should not qualification should not extend should not extend however not extend however to extend however to ai however to ai systems to ai systems intended ai systems intended for systems intended for purely intended for purely ancillary for purely ancillary administrative purely ancillary administrative activities ancillary administrative activities that administrative activities that do activities that do not that do not affect do not affect the not affect the actual affect the actual administration the actual administration of actual administration of justice administration of justice in of justice in individual justice in individual cases in individual cases such individual cases such as cases such as anonymisation such as anonymisation or as anonymisation or pseudonymisation anonymisation or pseudonymisation of or pseudonymisation of judicial pseudonymisation of judicial decisions of judicial decisions documents judicial decisions documents or decisions documents or data documents or data communication or data communication between data communication between personnel communication between personnel administrative between personnel administrative tasks.
the fact fact that that an an ai ai system system is is classified classified as as high high risk risk under under this this regulation regulation should should not not be be interpreted interpreted as as indicating indicating that that the the use use of of the the system system is is lawful lawful under under other other acts acts of of union union law law or or under under national national law law compatible compatible with with union union law law such such as as on on the the protection protection of of personal personal data data on on the the use use of of polygraphs polygraphs and and similar similar tools tools or or other other systems systems to to detect detect the the emotional emotional state state of of natural natural persons.
the fact that fact that an that an ai an ai system ai system is system is classified is classified as classified as high as high risk high risk under risk under this under this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not be not be interpreted be interpreted as interpreted as indicating as indicating that indicating that the that the use the use of use of the of the system the system is system is lawful is lawful under lawful under other under other acts other acts of acts of union of union law union law or law or under or under national under national law national law compatible law compatible with compatible with union with union law union law such law such as such as on as on the on the protection the protection of protection of personal of personal data personal data on data on the on the use the use of use of polygraphs of polygraphs and polygraphs and similar and similar tools similar tools or tools or other or other systems other systems to systems to detect to detect the detect the emotional the emotional state emotional state of state of natural of natural persons.
the fact that an fact that an ai that an ai system an ai system is ai system is classified system is classified as is classified as high classified as high risk as high risk under high risk under this risk under this regulation under this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not be should not be interpreted not be interpreted as be interpreted as indicating interpreted as indicating that as indicating that the indicating that the use that the use of the use of the use of the system of the system is the system is lawful system is lawful under is lawful under other lawful under other acts under other acts of other acts of union acts of union law of union law or union law or under law or under national or under national law under national law compatible national law compatible with law compatible with union compatible with union law with union law such union law such as law such as on such as on the as on the protection on the protection of the protection of personal protection of personal data of personal data on personal data on the data on the use on the use of the use of polygraphs use of polygraphs and of polygraphs and similar polygraphs and similar tools and similar tools or similar tools or other tools or other systems or other systems to other systems to detect systems to detect the to detect the emotional detect the emotional state the emotional state of emotional state of natural state of natural persons.
any such such use use should should continue continue to to occur occur solely solely in in accordance accordance with with the the applicable applicable requirements requirements resulting resulting from from the the charter charter and and from from the the applicable applicable acts acts of of secondary secondary union union law law and and national national law.
any such use such use should use should continue should continue to continue to occur to occur solely occur solely in solely in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the applicable the applicable requirements applicable requirements resulting requirements resulting from resulting from the from the charter the charter and charter and from and from the from the applicable the applicable acts applicable acts of acts of secondary of secondary union secondary union law union law and law and national and national law.
any such use should such use should continue use should continue to should continue to occur continue to occur solely to occur solely in occur solely in accordance solely in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the applicable with the applicable requirements the applicable requirements resulting applicable requirements resulting from requirements resulting from the resulting from the charter from the charter and the charter and from charter and from the and from the applicable from the applicable acts the applicable acts of applicable acts of secondary acts of secondary union of secondary union law secondary union law and union law and national law and national law.
this regulation regulation should should not not be be understood understood as as providing providing for for the the legal legal ground ground for for processing processing of of personal personal data data including including special special categories categories of of personal personal data data where where relevant relevant unless unless it it is is specifically specifically provided provided for for otherwise otherwise in in this this regulation.
this regulation should regulation should not should not be not be understood be understood as understood as providing as providing for providing for the for the legal the legal ground legal ground for ground for processing for processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data including data including special including special categories special categories of categories of personal of personal data personal data where data where relevant where relevant unless relevant unless it unless it is it is specifically is specifically provided specifically provided for provided for otherwise for otherwise in otherwise in this in this regulation.
this regulation should not regulation should not be should not be understood not be understood as be understood as providing understood as providing for as providing for the providing for the legal for the legal ground the legal ground for legal ground for processing ground for processing of for processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data including personal data including special data including special categories including special categories of special categories of personal categories of personal data of personal data where personal data where relevant data where relevant unless where relevant unless it relevant unless it is unless it is specifically it is specifically provided is specifically provided for specifically provided for otherwise provided for otherwise in for otherwise in this otherwise in this regulation.
to mitigate mitigate the the risks risks from from high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems placed placed or or otherwise otherwise put put into into service service on on the the union union market market certain certain mandatory mandatory requirements requirements should should apply apply taking taking into into account account the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the use use of of the the system system and and according according to to the the risk risk management management system system to to be be established established by by the the provider.
to mitigate the mitigate the risks the risks from risks from high-risk from high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems placed systems placed or placed or otherwise or otherwise put otherwise put into put into service into service on service on the on the union the union market union market certain market certain mandatory certain mandatory requirements mandatory requirements should requirements should apply should apply taking apply taking into taking into account into account the account the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the use the use of use of the of the system the system and system and according and according to according to the to the risk the risk management risk management system management system to system to be to be established be established by established by the by the provider.
to mitigate the risks mitigate the risks from the risks from high-risk risks from high-risk ai from high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems placed ai systems placed or systems placed or otherwise placed or otherwise put or otherwise put into otherwise put into service put into service on into service on the service on the union on the union market the union market certain union market certain mandatory market certain mandatory requirements certain mandatory requirements should mandatory requirements should apply requirements should apply taking should apply taking into apply taking into account taking into account the into account the intended account the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the use of the use of the use of the use of the system of the system and the system and according system and according to and according to the according to the risk to the risk management the risk management system risk management system to management system to be system to be established to be established by be established by the established by the provider.
in particular particular the the risk risk management management system system should should consist consist of of a a continuous continuous iterative iterative process process planned planned and and run run throughout throughout the the entire entire lifecycle lifecycle of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
in particular the particular the risk the risk management risk management system management system should system should consist should consist of consist of a of a continuous a continuous iterative continuous iterative process iterative process planned process planned and planned and run and run throughout run throughout the throughout the entire the entire lifecycle entire lifecycle of lifecycle of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
in particular the risk particular the risk management the risk management system risk management system should management system should consist system should consist of should consist of a consist of a continuous of a continuous iterative a continuous iterative process continuous iterative process planned iterative process planned and process planned and run planned and run throughout and run throughout the run throughout the entire throughout the entire lifecycle the entire lifecycle of entire lifecycle of a lifecycle of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system.
this process process should should ensure ensure that that the the provider provider identifies identifies and and analyses analyses the the risks risks to to the the health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights of of the the persons persons who who may may be be affected affected by by the the system system in in light light of of its its intended intended purpose purpose including including the the possible possible risks risks arising arising from from the the interaction interaction between between the the ai ai system system and and the the environment environment within within which which it it operates operates and and accordingly accordingly adopts adopts suitable suitable risk risk management management measures measures in in the the light light of of state state of of the the art.
this process should process should ensure should ensure that ensure that the that the provider the provider identifies provider identifies and identifies and analyses and analyses the analyses the risks the risks to risks to the to the health the health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights of rights of the of the persons the persons who persons who may who may be may be affected be affected by affected by the by the system the system in system in light in light of light of its of its intended its intended purpose intended purpose including purpose including the including the possible the possible risks possible risks arising risks arising from arising from the from the interaction the interaction between interaction between the between the ai the ai system ai system and system and the and the environment the environment within environment within which within which it which it operates it operates and operates and accordingly and accordingly adopts accordingly adopts suitable adopts suitable risk suitable risk management risk management measures management measures in measures in the in the light the light of light of state of state of state of the of the art.
this process should ensure process should ensure that should ensure that the ensure that the provider that the provider identifies the provider identifies and provider identifies and analyses identifies and analyses the and analyses the risks analyses the risks to the risks to the risks to the health to the health safety the health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights of fundamental rights of the rights of the persons of the persons who the persons who may persons who may be who may be affected may be affected by be affected by the affected by the system by the system in the system in light system in light of in light of its light of its intended of its intended purpose its intended purpose including intended purpose including the purpose including the possible including the possible risks the possible risks arising possible risks arising from risks arising from the arising from the interaction from the interaction between the interaction between the interaction between the ai between the ai system the ai system and ai system and the system and the environment and the environment within the environment within which environment within which it within which it operates which it operates and it operates and accordingly operates and accordingly adopts and accordingly adopts suitable accordingly adopts suitable risk adopts suitable risk management suitable risk management measures risk management measures in management measures in the measures in the light in the light of the light of state light of state of of state of the state of the art.
tree..b rbek rbek en en requirements requirements should should apply apply to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems as as regards regards the the quality quality of of data data sets sets used used technical technical documentation documentation and and record-keeping record-keeping transparency transparency and and the the provision provision of of information information to to users users human human oversight oversight and and robustness robustness accuracy accuracy and and cybersecurity.
tree..b rbek en rbek en requirements en requirements should requirements should apply should apply to apply to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems as systems as regards as regards the regards the quality the quality of quality of data of data sets data sets used sets used technical used technical documentation technical documentation and documentation and record-keeping and record-keeping transparency record-keeping transparency and transparency and the and the provision the provision of provision of information of information to information to users to users human users human oversight human oversight and oversight and robustness and robustness accuracy robustness accuracy and accuracy and cybersecurity.
tree..b rbek en requirements rbek en requirements should en requirements should apply requirements should apply to should apply to high-risk apply to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems as ai systems as regards systems as regards the as regards the quality regards the quality of the quality of data quality of data sets of data sets used data sets used technical sets used technical documentation used technical documentation and technical documentation and record-keeping documentation and record-keeping transparency and record-keeping transparency and record-keeping transparency and the transparency and the provision and the provision of the provision of information provision of information to of information to users information to users human to users human oversight users human oversight and human oversight and robustness oversight and robustness accuracy and robustness accuracy and robustness accuracy and cybersecurity.
those requirements requirements are are necessary necessary to to effectively effectively mitigate mitigate the the risks risks for for health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights as as applicable applicable in in the the light light of of the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the system system and and no no other other less less trade trade restrictive restrictive measures measures are are reasonably reasonably available available thus thus avoiding avoiding unjustified unjustified restrictions restrictions to to trade.
those requirements are requirements are necessary are necessary to necessary to effectively to effectively mitigate effectively mitigate the mitigate the risks the risks for risks for health for health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights as rights as applicable as applicable in applicable in the in the light the light of light of the of the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the system the system and system and no and no other no other less other less trade less trade restrictive trade restrictive measures restrictive measures are measures are reasonably are reasonably available reasonably available thus available thus avoiding thus avoiding unjustified avoiding unjustified restrictions unjustified restrictions to restrictions to trade.
those requirements are necessary requirements are necessary to are necessary to effectively necessary to effectively mitigate to effectively mitigate the effectively mitigate the risks mitigate the risks for the risks for health risks for health safety for health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights as fundamental rights as applicable rights as applicable in as applicable in the applicable in the light in the light of the light of the light of the intended of the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the system of the system and the system and no system and no other and no other less no other less trade other less trade restrictive less trade restrictive measures trade restrictive measures are restrictive measures are reasonably measures are reasonably available are reasonably available thus reasonably available thus avoiding available thus avoiding unjustified thus avoiding unjustified restrictions avoiding unjustified restrictions to unjustified restrictions to trade.
high data data quality quality is is essential essential for for the the performance performance of of many many ai ai systems systems especially especially when when techniques techniques involving involving the the training training of of models models are are used used with with a a view view to to ensure ensure that that the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system performs performs as as intended intended and and safely safely and and it it does does not not become become the the source source of of discrimination discrimination prohibited prohibited by by union union law.
high data quality data quality is quality is essential is essential for essential for the for the performance the performance of performance of many of many ai many ai systems ai systems especially systems especially when especially when techniques when techniques involving techniques involving the involving the training the training of training of models of models are models are used are used with used with a with a view a view to view to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system performs system performs as performs as intended as intended and intended and safely and safely and safely and it and it does it does not does not become not become the become the source the source of source of discrimination of discrimination prohibited discrimination prohibited by prohibited by union by union law.
high data quality is data quality is essential quality is essential for is essential for the essential for the performance for the performance of the performance of many performance of many ai of many ai systems many ai systems especially ai systems especially when systems especially when techniques especially when techniques involving when techniques involving the techniques involving the training involving the training of the training of models training of models are of models are used models are used with are used with a used with a view with a view to a view to ensure view to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the high-risk that the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system performs ai system performs as system performs as intended performs as intended and as intended and safely intended and safely and and safely and it safely and it does and it does not it does not become does not become the not become the source become the source of the source of discrimination source of discrimination prohibited of discrimination prohibited by discrimination prohibited by union prohibited by union law.
high quality quality training training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets require require the the implementation implementation of of appropriate appropriate data data governance governance and and management management practices.
high quality training quality training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets require sets require the require the implementation the implementation of implementation of appropriate of appropriate data appropriate data governance data governance and governance and management and management practices.
high quality training validation quality training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets require data sets require the sets require the implementation require the implementation of the implementation of appropriate implementation of appropriate data of appropriate data governance appropriate data governance and data governance and management governance and management practices.
training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets should should be be sufficiently sufficiently relevant relevant representative representative and and have have the the appropriate appropriate statistical statistical properties properties including including as as regards regards the the persons persons or or groups groups of of persons persons on on which which the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets should sets should be should be sufficiently be sufficiently relevant sufficiently relevant representative relevant representative and representative and have and have the have the appropriate the appropriate statistical appropriate statistical properties statistical properties including properties including as including as regards as regards the regards the persons the persons or persons or groups or groups of groups of persons of persons on persons on which on which the which the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets should data sets should be sets should be sufficiently should be sufficiently relevant be sufficiently relevant representative sufficiently relevant representative and relevant representative and have representative and have the and have the appropriate have the appropriate statistical the appropriate statistical properties appropriate statistical properties including statistical properties including as properties including as regards including as regards the as regards the persons regards the persons or the persons or groups persons or groups of or groups of persons groups of persons on of persons on which persons on which the on which the high-risk which the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
these datasets datasets should should also also be be as as free free of of errors errors and and complete complete as as possible possible in in view view of of the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the ai ai system system taking taking into into account account in in a a proportionate proportionate manner manner technical technical feasibility feasibility and and state state of of the the art art the the availability availability of of data data and and the the implementation implementation of of appropriate appropriate risk risk management management measures measures so so that that possible possible shortcomings shortcomings of of the the datasets datasets are are duly duly addressed.
these datasets should datasets should also should also be also be as be as free as free of free of errors of errors and errors and complete and complete as complete as possible as possible in possible in view in view of view of the of the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the ai the ai system ai system taking system taking into taking into account into account in account in a in a proportionate a proportionate manner proportionate manner technical manner technical feasibility technical feasibility and feasibility and state and state of state of the of the art the art the art the availability the availability of availability of data of data and data and the and the implementation the implementation of implementation of appropriate of appropriate risk appropriate risk management risk management measures management measures so measures so that so that possible that possible shortcomings possible shortcomings of shortcomings of the of the datasets the datasets are datasets are duly are duly addressed.
these datasets should also datasets should also be should also be as also be as free be as free of as free of errors free of errors and of errors and complete errors and complete as and complete as possible complete as possible in as possible in view possible in view of in view of the view of the intended of the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the ai of the ai system the ai system taking ai system taking into system taking into account taking into account in into account in a account in a proportionate in a proportionate manner a proportionate manner technical proportionate manner technical feasibility manner technical feasibility and technical feasibility and state feasibility and state of and state of the state of the art of the art the the art the availability art the availability of the availability of data availability of data and of data and the data and the implementation and the implementation of the implementation of appropriate implementation of appropriate risk of appropriate risk management appropriate risk management measures risk management measures so management measures so that measures so that possible so that possible shortcomings that possible shortcomings of possible shortcomings of the shortcomings of the datasets of the datasets are the datasets are duly datasets are duly addressed.
the requirement requirement for for the the datasets datasets to to be be complete complete and and free free of of errors errors should should not not affect affect the the use use of of privacy-preserving privacy-preserving techniques techniques in in the the context context of of the the the the development development and and testing testing of of ai ai systems.
the requirement for requirement for the for the datasets the datasets to datasets to be to be complete be complete and complete and free and free of free of errors of errors should errors should not should not affect not affect the affect the use the use of use of privacy-preserving of privacy-preserving techniques privacy-preserving techniques in techniques in the in the context the context of context of the of the the the the development the development and development and testing and testing of testing of ai of ai systems.
the requirement for the requirement for the datasets for the datasets to the datasets to be datasets to be complete to be complete and be complete and free complete and free of and free of errors free of errors should of errors should not errors should not affect should not affect the not affect the use affect the use of the use of privacy-preserving use of privacy-preserving techniques of privacy-preserving techniques in privacy-preserving techniques in the techniques in the context in the context of the context of the context of the the of the the development the the development and the development and testing development and testing of and testing of ai testing of ai systems.
training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets should should take take into into account account to to the the extent extent required required by by their their intended intended purpose purpose the the features features characteristics characteristics or or elements elements that that are are particular particular to to the the specific specific geographical geographical behavioural behavioural or or functional functional setting setting or or context context within within which which the the ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets should sets should take should take into take into account into account to account to the to the extent the extent required extent required by required by their by their intended their intended purpose intended purpose the purpose the features the features characteristics features characteristics or characteristics or elements or elements that elements that are that are particular are particular to particular to the to the specific the specific geographical specific geographical behavioural geographical behavioural or behavioural or functional or functional setting functional setting or setting or context or context within context within which within which the which the ai the ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets should data sets should take sets should take into should take into account take into account to into account to the account to the extent to the extent required the extent required by extent required by their required by their intended by their intended purpose their intended purpose the intended purpose the features purpose the features characteristics the features characteristics or features characteristics or elements characteristics or elements that or elements that are elements that are particular that are particular to are particular to the particular to the specific to the specific geographical the specific geographical behavioural specific geographical behavioural or geographical behavioural or functional behavioural or functional setting or functional setting or functional setting or context setting or context within or context within which context within which the within which the ai which the ai system the ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
in order order to to protect protect the the right right of of others others from from the the discrimination discrimination that that might might result result from from the the bias bias in in ai ai systems systems the the providers providers should should be be able able to to process process also also special special categories categories of of personal personal data data as as a a matter matter of of substantial substantial public public interest interest within within the the meaning meaning of of article article g g of of regulation regulation eu eu and and article article g g of of regulation regulation eu eu in in order order to to ensure ensure the the bias bias monitoring monitoring detection detection and and correction correction in in relation relation to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
in order to order to protect to protect the protect the right the right of right of others of others from others from the from the discrimination the discrimination that discrimination that might that might result might result from result from the from the bias the bias in bias in ai in ai systems ai systems the systems the providers the providers should providers should be should be able be able to able to process to process also process also special also special categories special categories of categories of personal of personal data personal data as data as a as a matter a matter of matter of substantial of substantial public substantial public interest public interest within interest within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article g article g of g of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and article and article g article g of g of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu in eu in order in order to order to ensure to ensure the ensure the bias the bias monitoring bias monitoring detection monitoring detection and detection and correction and correction in correction in relation in relation to relation to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
in order to protect order to protect the to protect the right protect the right of the right of others right of others from of others from the others from the discrimination from the discrimination that the discrimination that might discrimination that might result that might result from might result from the result from the bias from the bias in the bias in ai bias in ai systems in ai systems the ai systems the providers systems the providers should the providers should be providers should be able should be able to be able to process able to process also to process also special process also special categories also special categories of special categories of personal categories of personal data of personal data as personal data as a data as a matter as a matter of a matter of substantial matter of substantial public of substantial public interest substantial public interest within public interest within the interest within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article g of article g of article g of regulation g of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and article eu and article g and article g of article g of regulation g of regulation eu of regulation eu in regulation eu in order eu in order to in order to ensure order to ensure the to ensure the bias ensure the bias monitoring the bias monitoring detection bias monitoring detection and monitoring detection and correction detection and correction in and correction in relation correction in relation to in relation to high-risk relation to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a when when applying applying the the principles principles referred referred to to in in article article c c of of regulation regulation and and article article c c of of regulation regulation in in particular particular the the principle principle of of data data minimisation minimisation in in regard regard to to training training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets under under this this regulation regulation due due regard regard should should be be had had to to the the full full life life cycle cycle of of the the ai ai system.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a when a when applying when applying the applying the principles the principles referred principles referred to referred to in to in article in article c article c of c of regulation of regulation and regulation and article and article c article c of c of regulation of regulation in regulation in particular in particular the particular the principle the principle of principle of data of data minimisation data minimisation in minimisation in regard in regard to regard to training to training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets under sets under this under this regulation this regulation due regulation due regard due regard should regard should be should be had be had to had to the to the full the full life full life cycle life cycle of cycle of the of the ai the ai system.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a when en a when applying a when applying the when applying the principles applying the principles referred the principles referred to principles referred to in referred to in article to in article c in article c of article c of regulation c of regulation and of regulation and article regulation and article c and article c of article c of regulation c of regulation in of regulation in particular regulation in particular the in particular the principle particular the principle of the principle of data principle of data minimisation of data minimisation in data minimisation in regard minimisation in regard to in regard to training regard to training validation to training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets under data sets under this sets under this regulation under this regulation due this regulation due regard regulation due regard should due regard should be regard should be had should be had to be had to the had to the full to the full life the full life cycle full life cycle of life cycle of the cycle of the ai of the ai system.
for the the development development of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems certain certain actors actors such such as as providers providers notified notified bodies bodies and and other other relevant relevant entities entities such such as as digital digital innovation innovation hubs hubs testing testing experimentation experimentation facilities facilities and and researchers researchers should should be be able able to to access access and and use use high high quality quality datasets datasets within within their their respective respective fields fields of of activities activities which which are are related related to to this this regulation.
for the development the development of development of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems certain systems certain actors certain actors such actors such as such as providers as providers notified providers notified bodies notified bodies and bodies and other and other relevant other relevant entities relevant entities such entities such as such as digital as digital innovation digital innovation hubs innovation hubs testing hubs testing experimentation testing experimentation facilities experimentation facilities and facilities and researchers and researchers should researchers should be should be able be able to able to access to access and access and use and use high use high quality high quality datasets quality datasets within datasets within their within their respective their respective fields respective fields of fields of activities of activities which activities which are which are related are related to related to this to this regulation.
for the development of the development of high-risk development of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems certain ai systems certain actors systems certain actors such certain actors such as actors such as providers such as providers notified as providers notified bodies providers notified bodies and notified bodies and other bodies and other relevant and other relevant entities other relevant entities such relevant entities such as entities such as digital such as digital innovation as digital innovation hubs digital innovation hubs testing innovation hubs testing experimentation hubs testing experimentation facilities testing experimentation facilities and experimentation facilities and researchers facilities and researchers should and researchers should be researchers should be able should be able to be able to access able to access and to access and use access and use high and use high quality use high quality datasets high quality datasets within quality datasets within their datasets within their respective within their respective fields their respective fields of respective fields of activities fields of activities which of activities which are activities which are related which are related to are related to this related to this regulation.
european common common data data spaces spaces established established by by the the commission commission and and the the facilitation facilitation of of data data sharing sharing between between businesses businesses and and with with government government in in the the public public interest interest will will be be instrumental instrumental to to provide provide trustful trustful accountable accountable and and non-discriminatory non-discriminatory access access to to high high quality quality data data for for the the training training validation validation and and testing testing of of ai ai systems.
european common data common data spaces data spaces established spaces established by established by the by the commission the commission and commission and the and the facilitation the facilitation of facilitation of data of data sharing data sharing between sharing between businesses between businesses and businesses and with and with government with government in government in the in the public the public interest public interest will interest will be will be instrumental be instrumental to instrumental to provide to provide trustful provide trustful accountable trustful accountable and accountable and non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory access non-discriminatory access to access to high to high quality high quality data quality data for data for the for the training the training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing of testing of ai of ai systems.
european common data spaces common data spaces established data spaces established by spaces established by the established by the commission by the commission and the commission and the commission and the facilitation and the facilitation of the facilitation of data facilitation of data sharing of data sharing between data sharing between businesses sharing between businesses and between businesses and with businesses and with government and with government in with government in the government in the public in the public interest the public interest will public interest will be interest will be instrumental will be instrumental to be instrumental to provide instrumental to provide trustful to provide trustful accountable provide trustful accountable and trustful accountable and non-discriminatory accountable and non-discriminatory access and non-discriminatory access to non-discriminatory access to high access to high quality to high quality data high quality data for quality data for the data for the training for the training validation the training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing of and testing of ai testing of ai systems.
for example example in in health health the the european european health health data data space space will will facilitate facilitate non-discriminatory non-discriminatory access access to to health health data data and and the the training training of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence algorithms algorithms on on those those datasets datasets in in a a privacy-preserving privacy-preserving secure secure timely timely transparent transparent and and trustworthy trustworthy manner manner and and with with an an appropriate appropriate institutional institutional governance.
for example in example in health in health the health the european the european health european health data health data space data space will space will facilitate will facilitate non-discriminatory facilitate non-discriminatory access non-discriminatory access to access to health to health data health data and data and the and the training the training of training of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence algorithms intelligence algorithms on algorithms on those on those datasets those datasets in datasets in a in a privacy-preserving a privacy-preserving secure privacy-preserving secure timely secure timely transparent timely transparent and transparent and trustworthy and trustworthy manner trustworthy manner and manner and with and with an with an appropriate an appropriate institutional appropriate institutional governance.
for example in health example in health the in health the european health the european health the european health data european health data space health data space will data space will facilitate space will facilitate non-discriminatory will facilitate non-discriminatory access facilitate non-discriminatory access to non-discriminatory access to health access to health data to health data and health data and the data and the training and the training of the training of artificial training of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence algorithms artificial intelligence algorithms on intelligence algorithms on those algorithms on those datasets on those datasets in those datasets in a datasets in a privacy-preserving in a privacy-preserving secure a privacy-preserving secure timely privacy-preserving secure timely transparent secure timely transparent and timely transparent and trustworthy transparent and trustworthy manner and trustworthy manner and trustworthy manner and with manner and with an and with an appropriate with an appropriate institutional an appropriate institutional governance.
relevant competent competent authorities authorities including including sectoral sectoral ones ones providing providing or or supporting supporting the the access access to to data data may may also also support support the the provision provision of of high-quality high-quality data data for for the the training training validation validation and and testing testing of of ai ai systems.
relevant competent authorities competent authorities including authorities including sectoral including sectoral ones sectoral ones providing ones providing or providing or supporting or supporting the supporting the access the access to access to data to data may data may also may also support also support the support the provision the provision of provision of high-quality of high-quality data high-quality data for data for the for the training the training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing of testing of ai of ai systems.
relevant competent authorities including competent authorities including sectoral authorities including sectoral ones including sectoral ones providing sectoral ones providing or ones providing or supporting providing or supporting the or supporting the access supporting the access to the access to data access to data may to data may also data may also support may also support the also support the provision support the provision of the provision of high-quality provision of high-quality data of high-quality data for high-quality data for the data for the training for the training validation the training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing of and testing of ai testing of ai systems.
having information information on on how how high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems have have been been developed developed and and how how they they perform perform throughout throughout their their lifecycle lifecycle is is essential essential to to verify verify compliance compliance with with the the requirements requirements under under this this regulation.
having information on information on how on how high-risk how high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems have systems have been have been developed been developed and developed and how and how they how they perform they perform throughout perform throughout their throughout their lifecycle their lifecycle is lifecycle is essential is essential to essential to verify to verify compliance verify compliance with compliance with the with the requirements the requirements under requirements under this under this regulation.
having information on how information on how high-risk on how high-risk ai how high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems have ai systems have been systems have been developed have been developed and been developed and how developed and how they and how they perform how they perform throughout they perform throughout their perform throughout their lifecycle throughout their lifecycle is their lifecycle is essential lifecycle is essential to is essential to verify essential to verify compliance to verify compliance with verify compliance with the compliance with the requirements with the requirements under the requirements under this requirements under this regulation.
this requires requires keeping keeping records records and and the the availability availability of of a a technical technical documentation documentation containing containing information information which which is is necessary necessary to to assess assess the the compliance compliance of of the the ai ai system system with with the the relevant relevant requirements.
this requires keeping requires keeping records keeping records and records and the and the availability the availability of availability of a of a technical a technical documentation technical documentation containing documentation containing information containing information which information which is which is necessary is necessary to necessary to assess to assess the assess the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the ai the ai system ai system with system with the with the relevant the relevant requirements.
this requires keeping records requires keeping records and keeping records and the records and the availability and the availability of the availability of a availability of a technical of a technical documentation a technical documentation containing technical documentation containing information documentation containing information which containing information which is information which is necessary which is necessary to is necessary to assess necessary to assess the to assess the compliance assess the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the ai of the ai system the ai system with ai system with the system with the relevant with the relevant requirements.
such information information should should include include the the general general characteristics characteristics capabilities capabilities and and limitations limitations of of the the system system algorithms algorithms data data training training testing testing and and validation validation processes processes used used as as well well as as documentation documentation on on the the relevant relevant risk risk management management system.
such information should information should include should include the include the general the general characteristics general characteristics capabilities characteristics capabilities and capabilities and limitations and limitations of limitations of the of the system the system algorithms system algorithms data algorithms data training data training testing training testing and testing and validation and validation processes validation processes used processes used as used as well as well as well as documentation as documentation on documentation on the on the relevant the relevant risk relevant risk management risk management system.
such information should include information should include the should include the general include the general characteristics the general characteristics capabilities general characteristics capabilities and characteristics capabilities and limitations capabilities and limitations of and limitations of the limitations of the system of the system algorithms the system algorithms data system algorithms data training algorithms data training testing data training testing and training testing and validation testing and validation processes and validation processes used validation processes used as processes used as well used as well as as well as documentation well as documentation on as documentation on the documentation on the relevant on the relevant risk the relevant risk management relevant risk management system.
the technical technical documentation documentation should should be be kept kept up up to to date.
the technical documentation technical documentation should documentation should be should be kept be kept up kept up to up to date.
the technical documentation should technical documentation should be documentation should be kept should be kept up be kept up to kept up to date.
furthermore providers providers or or users users should should keep keep logs logs automatically automatically generated generated by by the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system including including for for instance instance output output data data start start date date and and time time etc.
furthermore providers or providers or users or users should users should keep should keep logs keep logs automatically logs automatically generated automatically generated by generated by the by the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system including system including for including for instance for instance output instance output data output data start data start date start date and date and time and time etc.
furthermore providers or users providers or users should or users should keep users should keep logs should keep logs automatically keep logs automatically generated logs automatically generated by automatically generated by the generated by the high-risk by the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system including ai system including for system including for instance including for instance output for instance output data instance output data start output data start date data start date and start date and time date and time etc.
to the the extent extent that that such such a a system system and and the the related related logs logs are are under under their their control control for for a a period period that that is is appropriate appropriate to to enable enable them them to to fulfil fulfil their their obligations.
to the extent the extent that extent that such that such a such a system a system and system and the and the related the related logs related logs are logs are under are under their under their control their control for control for a for a period a period that period that is that is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to enable to enable them enable them to them to fulfil to fulfil their fulfil their obligations.
to the extent that the extent that such extent that such a that such a system such a system and a system and the system and the related and the related logs the related logs are related logs are under logs are under their are under their control under their control for their control for a control for a period for a period that a period that is period that is appropriate that is appropriate to is appropriate to enable appropriate to enable them to enable them to enable them to fulfil them to fulfil their to fulfil their obligations.
tree..b rbek rbek en en to to address address the the opacity opacity that that may may make make certain certain ai ai systems systems incomprehensible incomprehensible to to or or too too complex complex for for natural natural persons persons a a certain certain degree degree of of transparency transparency should should be be required required for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
tree..b rbek en rbek en to en to address to address the address the opacity the opacity that opacity that may that may make may make certain make certain ai certain ai systems ai systems incomprehensible systems incomprehensible to incomprehensible to or to or too or too complex too complex for complex for natural for natural persons natural persons a persons a certain a certain degree certain degree of degree of transparency of transparency should transparency should be should be required be required for required for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek en to rbek en to address en to address the to address the opacity address the opacity that the opacity that may opacity that may make that may make certain may make certain ai make certain ai systems certain ai systems incomprehensible ai systems incomprehensible to systems incomprehensible to or incomprehensible to or too to or too complex or too complex for too complex for natural complex for natural persons for natural persons a natural persons a certain persons a certain degree a certain degree of certain degree of transparency degree of transparency should of transparency should be transparency should be required should be required for be required for high-risk required for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems.
users should should be be able able to to interpret interpret the the system system output output and and use use it it appropriately.
users should be should be able be able to able to interpret to interpret the interpret the system the system output system output and output and use and use it use it appropriately.
users should be able should be able to be able to interpret able to interpret the to interpret the system interpret the system output the system output and system output and use output and use it and use it appropriately.
high-risk ai ai systems systems should should therefore therefore be be accompanied accompanied by by relevant relevant documentation documentation and and instructions instructions of of use use and and include include concise concise and and clear clear information information including including in in relation relation to to possible possible risks risks to to fundamental fundamental rights rights and and discrimination discrimination of of the the persons persons who who may may be be affected affected by by the the system system in in light light of of its its intended intended purpose purpose where where appropriate.
high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should therefore should therefore be therefore be accompanied be accompanied by accompanied by relevant by relevant documentation relevant documentation and documentation and instructions and instructions of instructions of use of use and use and include and include concise include concise and concise and clear and clear information clear information including information including in including in relation in relation to relation to possible to possible risks possible risks to risks to fundamental to fundamental rights fundamental rights and rights and discrimination and discrimination of discrimination of the of the persons the persons who persons who may who may be may be affected be affected by affected by the by the system the system in system in light in light of light of its of its intended its intended purpose intended purpose where purpose where appropriate.
high-risk ai systems should ai systems should therefore systems should therefore be should therefore be accompanied therefore be accompanied by be accompanied by relevant accompanied by relevant documentation by relevant documentation and relevant documentation and instructions documentation and instructions of and instructions of use instructions of use and of use and include use and include concise and include concise and include concise and clear concise and clear information and clear information including clear information including in information including in relation including in relation to in relation to possible relation to possible risks to possible risks to possible risks to fundamental risks to fundamental rights to fundamental rights and fundamental rights and discrimination rights and discrimination of and discrimination of the discrimination of the persons of the persons who the persons who may persons who may be who may be affected may be affected by be affected by the affected by the system by the system in the system in light system in light of in light of its light of its intended of its intended purpose its intended purpose where intended purpose where appropriate.
to facilitate facilitate the the understanding understanding of of the the instructions instructions of of use use by by users users they they should should contain contain illustrative illustrative examples examples as as appropriate.
to facilitate the facilitate the understanding the understanding of understanding of the of the instructions the instructions of instructions of use of use by use by users by users they users they should they should contain should contain illustrative contain illustrative examples illustrative examples as examples as appropriate.
to facilitate the understanding facilitate the understanding of the understanding of the understanding of the instructions of the instructions of the instructions of use instructions of use by of use by users use by users they by users they should users they should contain they should contain illustrative should contain illustrative examples contain illustrative examples as illustrative examples as appropriate.
high-risk ai ai systems systems should should be be designed designed and and developed developed in in such such a a way way that that natural natural persons persons can can oversee oversee their their functioning.
high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should be should be designed be designed and designed and developed and developed in developed in such in such a such a way a way that way that natural that natural persons natural persons can persons can oversee can oversee their oversee their functioning.
high-risk ai systems should ai systems should be systems should be designed should be designed and be designed and developed designed and developed in and developed in such developed in such a in such a way such a way that a way that natural way that natural persons that natural persons can natural persons can oversee persons can oversee their can oversee their functioning.
for this this purpose purpose appropriate appropriate human human oversight oversight measures measures should should be be identified identified by by the the provider provider of of the the system system before before its its placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service.
for this purpose this purpose appropriate purpose appropriate human appropriate human oversight human oversight measures oversight measures should measures should be should be identified be identified by identified by the by the provider the provider of provider of the of the system the system before system before its before its placing its placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service.
for this purpose appropriate this purpose appropriate human purpose appropriate human oversight appropriate human oversight measures human oversight measures should oversight measures should be measures should be identified should be identified by be identified by the identified by the provider by the provider of the provider of the provider of the system of the system before the system before its system before its placing before its placing on its placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service.
in particular particular where where appropriate appropriate such such measures measures should should guarantee guarantee that that the the system system is is subject subject to to in-built in-built operational operational constraints constraints that that cannot cannot be be overridden overridden by by the the system system itself itself and and is is responsive responsive to to the the human human operator operator and and that that the the natural natural persons persons to to whom whom human human oversight oversight has has been been assigned assigned have have the the necessary necessary competence competence training training and and authority authority to to carry carry out out that that role.
in particular where particular where appropriate where appropriate such appropriate such measures such measures should measures should guarantee should guarantee that guarantee that the that the system the system is system is subject is subject to subject to in-built to in-built operational in-built operational constraints operational constraints that constraints that cannot that cannot be cannot be overridden be overridden by overridden by the by the system the system itself system itself and itself and is and is responsive is responsive to responsive to the to the human the human operator human operator and operator and that and that the that the natural the natural persons natural persons to persons to whom to whom human whom human oversight human oversight has oversight has been has been assigned been assigned have assigned have the have the necessary the necessary competence necessary competence training competence training and training and authority and authority to authority to carry to carry out carry out that out that role.
in particular where appropriate particular where appropriate such where appropriate such measures appropriate such measures should such measures should guarantee measures should guarantee that should guarantee that the guarantee that the system that the system is the system is subject system is subject to is subject to in-built subject to in-built operational to in-built operational constraints in-built operational constraints that operational constraints that cannot constraints that cannot be that cannot be overridden cannot be overridden by be overridden by the overridden by the system by the system itself the system itself and system itself and is itself and is responsive and is responsive to is responsive to the responsive to the human to the human operator the human operator and human operator and that operator and that the and that the natural that the natural persons the natural persons to natural persons to whom persons to whom human to whom human oversight whom human oversight has human oversight has been oversight has been assigned has been assigned have been assigned have the assigned have the necessary have the necessary competence the necessary competence training necessary competence training and competence training and authority training and authority to and authority to carry authority to carry out to carry out that carry out that role.
considering the the significant significant consequences consequences for for persons persons in in case case of of incorrect incorrect matches matches by by certain certain biometric biometric identification identification systems systems it it is is appropriate appropriate to to provide provide for for an an enhanced enhanced human human oversight oversight requirement requirement for for those those systems systems so so that that no no action action or or decision decision may may be be taken taken by by the the user user on on the the basis basis of of the the identification identification resulting resulting from from the the system system unless unless this this has has been been separately separately verified verified and and confirmed confirmed by by at at least least two two natural natural persons.
considering the significant the significant consequences significant consequences for consequences for persons for persons in persons in case in case of case of incorrect of incorrect matches incorrect matches by matches by certain by certain biometric certain biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems it systems it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to provide to provide for provide for an for an enhanced an enhanced human enhanced human oversight human oversight requirement oversight requirement for requirement for those for those systems those systems so systems so that so that no that no action no action or action or decision or decision may decision may be may be taken be taken by taken by the by the user the user on user on the on the basis the basis of basis of the of the identification the identification resulting identification resulting from resulting from the from the system the system unless system unless this unless this has this has been has been separately been separately verified separately verified and verified and confirmed and confirmed by confirmed by at by at least at least two least two natural two natural persons.
considering the significant consequences the significant consequences for significant consequences for persons consequences for persons in for persons in case persons in case of in case of incorrect case of incorrect matches of incorrect matches by incorrect matches by certain matches by certain biometric by certain biometric identification certain biometric identification systems biometric identification systems it identification systems it is systems it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to provide appropriate to provide for to provide for an provide for an enhanced for an enhanced human an enhanced human oversight enhanced human oversight requirement human oversight requirement for oversight requirement for those requirement for those systems for those systems so those systems so that systems so that no so that no action that no action or no action or decision action or decision may or decision may be decision may be taken may be taken by be taken by the taken by the user by the user on the user on the user on the basis on the basis of the basis of the basis of the identification of the identification resulting the identification resulting from identification resulting from the resulting from the system from the system unless the system unless this system unless this has unless this has been this has been separately has been separately verified been separately verified and separately verified and confirmed verified and confirmed by and confirmed by at confirmed by at least by at least two at least two natural least two natural persons.
those persons persons could could be be from from one one or or more more entities entities and and include include the the person person operating operating or or using using the the system.
those persons could persons could be could be from be from one from one or one or more or more entities more entities and entities and include and include the include the person the person operating person operating or operating or using or using the using the system.
those persons could be persons could be from could be from one be from one or from one or more one or more entities or more entities and more entities and include entities and include the and include the person include the person operating the person operating or person operating or using operating or using the or using the system.
this requirement requirement should should not not pose pose unnecessary unnecessary burden burden or or delays delays and and it it could could be be sufficient sufficient that that the the separate separate verifications verifications by by the the different different persons persons are are automatically automatically recorded recorded in in the the logs logs generated generated by by the the system.
this requirement should requirement should not should not pose not pose unnecessary pose unnecessary burden unnecessary burden or burden or delays or delays and delays and it and it could it could be could be sufficient be sufficient that sufficient that the that the separate the separate verifications separate verifications by verifications by the by the different the different persons different persons are persons are automatically are automatically recorded automatically recorded in recorded in the in the logs the logs generated logs generated by generated by the by the system.
this requirement should not requirement should not pose should not pose unnecessary not pose unnecessary burden pose unnecessary burden or unnecessary burden or delays burden or delays and or delays and it delays and it could and it could be it could be sufficient could be sufficient that be sufficient that the sufficient that the separate that the separate verifications the separate verifications by separate verifications by the verifications by the different by the different persons the different persons are different persons are automatically persons are automatically recorded are automatically recorded in automatically recorded in the recorded in the logs in the logs generated the logs generated by logs generated by the generated by the system.
high-risk ai ai systems systems should should perform perform consistently consistently throughout throughout their their lifecycle lifecycle and and meet meet an an appropriate appropriate level level of of accuracy accuracy robustness robustness and and cybersecurity cybersecurity in in accordance accordance with with the the generally generally acknowledged acknowledged state state of of the the art.
high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should perform should perform consistently perform consistently throughout consistently throughout their throughout their lifecycle their lifecycle and lifecycle and meet and meet an meet an appropriate an appropriate level appropriate level of level of accuracy of accuracy robustness accuracy robustness and robustness and cybersecurity and cybersecurity in cybersecurity in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the generally the generally acknowledged generally acknowledged state acknowledged state of state of the of the art.
high-risk ai systems should ai systems should perform systems should perform consistently should perform consistently throughout perform consistently throughout their consistently throughout their lifecycle throughout their lifecycle and their lifecycle and meet lifecycle and meet an and meet an appropriate meet an appropriate level an appropriate level of appropriate level of accuracy level of accuracy robustness of accuracy robustness and accuracy robustness and cybersecurity robustness and cybersecurity in and cybersecurity in accordance cybersecurity in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the generally with the generally acknowledged the generally acknowledged state generally acknowledged state of acknowledged state of the state of the art.
the level level of of accuracy accuracy and and accuracy accuracy metrics metrics should should be be communicated communicated to to the the users.
the level of level of accuracy of accuracy and accuracy and accuracy and accuracy metrics accuracy metrics should metrics should be should be communicated be communicated to communicated to the to the users.
the level of accuracy level of accuracy and of accuracy and accuracy accuracy and accuracy metrics and accuracy metrics should accuracy metrics should be metrics should be communicated should be communicated to be communicated to the communicated to the users.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the technical technical robustness robustness is is a a key key requirement requirement for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the technical the technical robustness technical robustness is robustness is a is a key a key requirement key requirement for requirement for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the technical en the technical robustness the technical robustness is technical robustness is a robustness is a key is a key requirement a key requirement for key requirement for high-risk requirement for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems.
they should should be be resilient resilient in in relation relation to to harmful harmful or or otherwise otherwise undesirable undesirable behaviour behaviour that that may may result result from from limitations limitations within within the the systems systems or or the the environment environment in in which which the the systems systems operate operate e.g.
they should be should be resilient be resilient in resilient in relation in relation to relation to harmful to harmful or harmful or otherwise or otherwise undesirable otherwise undesirable behaviour undesirable behaviour that behaviour that may that may result may result from result from limitations from limitations within limitations within the within the systems the systems or systems or the or the environment the environment in environment in which in which the which the systems the systems operate systems operate e.g.
they should be resilient should be resilient in be resilient in relation resilient in relation to in relation to harmful relation to harmful or to harmful or otherwise harmful or otherwise undesirable or otherwise undesirable behaviour otherwise undesirable behaviour that undesirable behaviour that may behaviour that may result that may result from may result from limitations result from limitations within from limitations within the limitations within the systems within the systems or the systems or the systems or the environment or the environment in the environment in which environment in which the in which the systems which the systems operate the systems operate e.g.
errors faults faults inconsistencies inconsistencies unexpected unexpected situations.
errors faults inconsistencies faults inconsistencies unexpected inconsistencies unexpected situations.
errors faults inconsistencies unexpected faults inconsistencies unexpected situations.
high-risk ai ai systems systems should should therefore therefore be be designed designed and and developed developed with with appropriate appropriate technical technical solutions solutions to to prevent prevent or or minimize minimize that that harmful harmful or or otherwise otherwise undesirable undesirable behaviour behaviour such such as as for for instance instance mechanisms mechanisms enabling enabling the the system system to to safely safely interrupt interrupt its its operation operation fail-safe fail-safe plans plans in in the the presence presence of of certain certain anomalies anomalies or or when when operation operation takes takes place place outside outside certain certain predetermined predetermined boundaries.
high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should therefore should therefore be therefore be designed be designed and designed and developed and developed with developed with appropriate with appropriate technical appropriate technical solutions technical solutions to solutions to prevent to prevent or prevent or minimize or minimize that minimize that harmful that harmful or harmful or otherwise or otherwise undesirable otherwise undesirable behaviour undesirable behaviour such behaviour such as such as for as for instance for instance mechanisms instance mechanisms enabling mechanisms enabling the enabling the system the system to system to safely to safely interrupt safely interrupt its interrupt its operation its operation fail-safe operation fail-safe plans fail-safe plans in plans in the in the presence the presence of presence of certain of certain anomalies certain anomalies or anomalies or when or when operation when operation takes operation takes place takes place outside place outside certain outside certain predetermined certain predetermined boundaries.
high-risk ai systems should ai systems should therefore systems should therefore be should therefore be designed therefore be designed and be designed and developed designed and developed with and developed with appropriate developed with appropriate technical with appropriate technical solutions appropriate technical solutions to technical solutions to prevent solutions to prevent or to prevent or minimize prevent or minimize that or minimize that harmful minimize that harmful or that harmful or otherwise harmful or otherwise undesirable or otherwise undesirable behaviour otherwise undesirable behaviour such undesirable behaviour such as behaviour such as for such as for instance as for instance mechanisms for instance mechanisms enabling instance mechanisms enabling the mechanisms enabling the system enabling the system to the system to safely system to safely interrupt to safely interrupt its safely interrupt its operation interrupt its operation fail-safe its operation fail-safe plans operation fail-safe plans in fail-safe plans in the plans in the presence in the presence of the presence of certain presence of certain anomalies of certain anomalies or certain anomalies or when anomalies or when operation or when operation takes when operation takes place operation takes place outside takes place outside certain place outside certain predetermined outside certain predetermined boundaries.
failure to to protect protect against against these these risks risks could could lead lead to to safety safety impacts impacts or or negatively negatively affect affect the the fundamental fundamental rights rights for for example example due due to to erroneous erroneous decisions decisions or or wrong wrong or or biased biased outputs outputs generated generated by by the the ai ai system.
failure to protect to protect against protect against these against these risks these risks could risks could lead could lead to lead to safety to safety impacts safety impacts or impacts or negatively or negatively affect negatively affect the affect the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights for rights for example for example due example due to due to erroneous to erroneous decisions erroneous decisions or decisions or wrong or wrong or wrong or biased or biased outputs biased outputs generated outputs generated by generated by the by the ai the ai system.
failure to protect against to protect against these protect against these risks against these risks could these risks could lead risks could lead to could lead to safety lead to safety impacts to safety impacts or safety impacts or negatively impacts or negatively affect or negatively affect the negatively affect the fundamental affect the fundamental rights the fundamental rights for fundamental rights for example rights for example due for example due to example due to erroneous due to erroneous decisions to erroneous decisions or erroneous decisions or wrong decisions or wrong or or wrong or biased wrong or biased outputs or biased outputs generated biased outputs generated by outputs generated by the generated by the ai by the ai system.
cybersecurity plays plays a a crucial crucial role role in in ensuring ensuring that that ai ai systems systems are are resilient resilient against against attempts attempts to to alter alter their their use use behaviour behaviour performance performance or or compromise compromise their their security security properties properties by by malicious malicious third third parties parties exploiting exploiting the the system’s system’s vulnerabilities.
cybersecurity plays a plays a crucial a crucial role crucial role in role in ensuring in ensuring that ensuring that ai that ai systems ai systems are systems are resilient are resilient against resilient against attempts against attempts to attempts to alter to alter their alter their use their use behaviour use behaviour performance behaviour performance or performance or compromise or compromise their compromise their security their security properties security properties by properties by malicious by malicious third malicious third parties third parties exploiting parties exploiting the exploiting the system’s the system’s vulnerabilities.
cybersecurity plays a crucial plays a crucial role a crucial role in crucial role in ensuring role in ensuring that in ensuring that ai ensuring that ai systems that ai systems are ai systems are resilient systems are resilient against are resilient against attempts resilient against attempts to against attempts to alter attempts to alter their to alter their use alter their use behaviour their use behaviour performance use behaviour performance or behaviour performance or compromise performance or compromise their or compromise their security compromise their security properties their security properties by security properties by malicious properties by malicious third by malicious third parties malicious third parties exploiting third parties exploiting the parties exploiting the system’s exploiting the system’s vulnerabilities.
cyberattacks against against ai ai systems systems can can leverage leverage ai ai specific specific assets assets such such as as training training data data sets sets e.g.
cyberattacks against ai against ai systems ai systems can systems can leverage can leverage ai leverage ai specific ai specific assets specific assets such assets such as such as training as training data training data sets data sets e.g.
cyberattacks against ai systems against ai systems can ai systems can leverage systems can leverage ai can leverage ai specific leverage ai specific assets ai specific assets such specific assets such as assets such as training such as training data as training data sets training data sets e.g.
data poisoning poisoning or or trained trained models models e.g.
data poisoning or poisoning or trained or trained models trained models e.g.
data poisoning or trained poisoning or trained models or trained models e.g.
adversarial attacks attacks or or exploit exploit vulnerabilities vulnerabilities in in the the ai ai system’s system’s digital digital assets assets or or the the underlying underlying ict ict infrastructure.
adversarial attacks or attacks or exploit or exploit vulnerabilities exploit vulnerabilities in vulnerabilities in the in the ai the ai system’s ai system’s digital system’s digital assets digital assets or assets or the or the underlying the underlying ict underlying ict infrastructure.
adversarial attacks or exploit attacks or exploit vulnerabilities or exploit vulnerabilities in exploit vulnerabilities in the vulnerabilities in the ai in the ai system’s the ai system’s digital ai system’s digital assets system’s digital assets or digital assets or the assets or the underlying or the underlying ict the underlying ict infrastructure.
to ensure ensure a a level level of of cybersecurity cybersecurity appropriate appropriate to to the the risks risks suitable suitable measures measures should should therefore therefore be be taken taken by by the the providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems also also taking taking into into account account as as appropriate appropriate the the underlying underlying ict ict infrastructure.
to ensure a ensure a level a level of level of cybersecurity of cybersecurity appropriate cybersecurity appropriate to appropriate to the to the risks the risks suitable risks suitable measures suitable measures should measures should therefore should therefore be therefore be taken be taken by taken by the by the providers the providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems also systems also taking also taking into taking into account into account as account as appropriate as appropriate the appropriate the underlying the underlying ict underlying ict infrastructure.
to ensure a level ensure a level of a level of cybersecurity level of cybersecurity appropriate of cybersecurity appropriate to cybersecurity appropriate to the appropriate to the risks to the risks suitable the risks suitable measures risks suitable measures should suitable measures should therefore measures should therefore be should therefore be taken therefore be taken by be taken by the taken by the providers by the providers of the providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems also ai systems also taking systems also taking into also taking into account taking into account as into account as appropriate account as appropriate the as appropriate the underlying appropriate the underlying ict the underlying ict infrastructure.
tree..b rbek rbek en en as as part part of of union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation rules rules applicable applicable to to the the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service and and use use of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems should should be be laid laid down down consistently consistently with with regulation regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council setting setting out out the the requirements requirements for for accreditation accreditation and and the the market market surveillance surveillance of of products products decision decision no no ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council on on a a common common framework framework for for the the marketing marketing of of products products and and regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council on on market market surveillance surveillance and and compliance compliance of of products products ‘new ‘new legislative legislative framework framework for for the the marketing marketing of of products’.
tree..b rbek en rbek en as en as part as part of part of union of union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation rules legislation rules applicable rules applicable to applicable to the to the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service and service and use and use of use of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should be should be laid be laid down laid down consistently down consistently with consistently with regulation with regulation ec regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council setting council setting out setting out the out the requirements the requirements for requirements for accreditation for accreditation and accreditation and the and the market the market surveillance market surveillance of surveillance of products of products decision products decision no decision no ec no ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council on council on a on a common a common framework common framework for framework for the for the marketing the marketing of marketing of products of products and products and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council on council on market on market surveillance market surveillance and surveillance and compliance and compliance of compliance of products of products ‘new products ‘new legislative ‘new legislative framework legislative framework for framework for the for the marketing the marketing of marketing of products’.
tree..b rbek en as rbek en as part en as part of as part of union part of union harmonisation of union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation rules harmonisation legislation rules applicable legislation rules applicable to rules applicable to the applicable to the placing to the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service and into service and use service and use of and use of high-risk use of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems should ai systems should be systems should be laid should be laid down be laid down consistently laid down consistently with down consistently with regulation consistently with regulation ec with regulation ec no regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council setting the council setting out council setting out the setting out the requirements out the requirements for the requirements for accreditation requirements for accreditation and for accreditation and the accreditation and the market and the market surveillance the market surveillance of market surveillance of products surveillance of products decision of products decision no products decision no ec decision no ec of no ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council on the council on a council on a common on a common framework a common framework for common framework for the framework for the marketing for the marketing of the marketing of products marketing of products and of products and regulation products and regulation eu and regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council on the council on market council on market surveillance on market surveillance and market surveillance and compliance surveillance and compliance of and compliance of products compliance of products ‘new of products ‘new legislative products ‘new legislative framework ‘new legislative framework for legislative framework for the framework for the marketing for the marketing of the marketing of products’.
a in in line line with with new new legislative legislative framework framework principles principles specific specific obligations obligations for for relevant relevant operators operators within within the the ai ai value value chain chain should should be be set set to to ensure ensure legal legal certainty certainty and and facilitate facilitate compliance compliance with with this this regulation.
a in line in line with line with new with new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework principles framework principles specific principles specific obligations specific obligations for obligations for relevant for relevant operators relevant operators within operators within the within the ai the ai value ai value chain value chain should chain should be should be set be set to set to ensure to ensure legal ensure legal certainty legal certainty and certainty and facilitate and facilitate compliance facilitate compliance with compliance with this with this regulation.
a in line with in line with new line with new legislative with new legislative framework new legislative framework principles legislative framework principles specific framework principles specific obligations principles specific obligations for specific obligations for relevant obligations for relevant operators for relevant operators within relevant operators within the operators within the ai within the ai value the ai value chain ai value chain should value chain should be chain should be set should be set to be set to ensure set to ensure legal to ensure legal certainty ensure legal certainty and legal certainty and facilitate certainty and facilitate compliance and facilitate compliance with facilitate compliance with this compliance with this regulation.
in certain certain situations situations those those operators operators could could act act in in more more than than one one role role at at the the same same time time and and should should therefore therefore fufil fufil cumulatively cumulatively all all relevant relevant obligations obligations associated associated with with those those roles.
in certain situations certain situations those situations those operators those operators could operators could act could act in act in more in more than more than one than one role one role at role at the at the same the same time same time and time and should and should therefore should therefore fufil therefore fufil cumulatively fufil cumulatively all cumulatively all relevant all relevant obligations relevant obligations associated obligations associated with associated with those with those roles.
in certain situations those certain situations those operators situations those operators could those operators could act operators could act in could act in more act in more than in more than one more than one role than one role at one role at the role at the same at the same time the same time and same time and should time and should therefore and should therefore fufil should therefore fufil cumulatively therefore fufil cumulatively all fufil cumulatively all relevant cumulatively all relevant obligations all relevant obligations associated relevant obligations associated with obligations associated with those associated with those roles.
for example example an an operator operator could could act act as as a a distributor distributor and and an an importer importer at at the the same same time.
for example an example an operator an operator could operator could act could act as act as a as a distributor a distributor and distributor and an and an importer an importer at importer at the at the same the same time.
for example an operator example an operator could an operator could act operator could act as could act as a act as a distributor as a distributor and a distributor and an distributor and an importer and an importer at an importer at the importer at the same at the same time.
it is is appropriate appropriate that that a a specific specific natural natural or or legal legal person person defined defined as as the the provider provider takes takes the the responsibility responsibility for for the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system regardless regardless of of whether whether that that natural natural or or legal legal person person is is the the person person who who designed designed or or developed developed the the system.
it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that a that a specific a specific natural specific natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person defined person defined as defined as the as the provider the provider takes provider takes the takes the responsibility the responsibility for responsibility for the for the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system regardless system regardless of regardless of whether of whether that whether that natural that natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person is person is the is the person the person who person who designed who designed or designed or developed or developed the developed the system.
it is appropriate that is appropriate that a appropriate that a specific that a specific natural a specific natural or specific natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person defined legal person defined as person defined as the defined as the provider as the provider takes the provider takes the provider takes the responsibility takes the responsibility for the responsibility for the responsibility for the placing for the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of a service of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system regardless ai system regardless of system regardless of whether regardless of whether that of whether that natural whether that natural or that natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person is legal person is the person is the person is the person who the person who designed person who designed or who designed or developed designed or developed the or developed the system.
regulation ec ec no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of july july setting setting out out the the requirements requirements for for accreditation accreditation and and market market surveillance surveillance relating relating to to the the marketing marketing of of products products and and repealing repealing regulation regulation eec eec no no oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation ec no ec no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of july of july setting july setting out setting out the out the requirements the requirements for requirements for accreditation for accreditation and accreditation and market and market surveillance market surveillance relating surveillance relating to relating to the to the marketing the marketing of marketing of products of products and products and repealing and repealing regulation repealing regulation eec regulation eec no eec no oj no oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation ec no of ec no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of july council of july setting of july setting out july setting out the setting out the requirements out the requirements for the requirements for accreditation requirements for accreditation and for accreditation and market accreditation and market surveillance and market surveillance relating market surveillance relating to surveillance relating to the relating to the marketing to the marketing of the marketing of products marketing of products and of products and repealing products and repealing regulation and repealing regulation eec repealing regulation eec no regulation eec no oj eec no oj l no oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
decision no no ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of july july on on a a common common framework framework for for the the marketing marketing of of products products and and repealing repealing council council decision decision eec eec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
decision no ec no ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of july of july on july on a on a common a common framework common framework for framework for the for the marketing the marketing of marketing of products of products and products and repealing and repealing council repealing council decision council decision eec decision eec oj eec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
decision no ec of no ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of july council of july on of july on a july on a common on a common framework a common framework for common framework for the framework for the marketing for the marketing of the marketing of products marketing of products and of products and repealing products and repealing council and repealing council decision repealing council decision eec council decision eec oj decision eec oj l eec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of june june on on market market surveillance surveillance and and compliance compliance of of products products and and amending amending directive directive ec ec and and regulations regulations ec ec no no and and eu eu no no text text with with eea eea relevance relevance oj oj l l .. .. p. p. –.
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of june of june on june on market on market surveillance market surveillance and surveillance and compliance and compliance of compliance of products of products and products and amending and amending directive amending directive ec directive ec and ec and regulations and regulations ec regulations ec no ec no and no and eu and eu no eu no text no text with text with eea with eea relevance eea relevance oj relevance oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. –.
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of june council of june on of june on market june on market surveillance on market surveillance and market surveillance and compliance surveillance and compliance of and compliance of products compliance of products and of products and amending products and amending directive and amending directive ec amending directive ec and directive ec and regulations ec and regulations ec and regulations ec no regulations ec no and ec no and eu no and eu no and eu no text eu no text with no text with eea text with eea relevance with eea relevance oj eea relevance oj l relevance oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. –.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the provider provider should should establish establish a a sound sound quality quality management management system system ensure ensure the the accomplishment accomplishment of of the the required required conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure draw draw up up the the relevant relevant documentation documentation and and establish establish a a robust robust post-market post-market monitoring monitoring system.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the provider the provider should provider should establish should establish a establish a sound a sound quality sound quality management quality management system management system ensure system ensure the ensure the accomplishment the accomplishment of accomplishment of the of the required the required conformity required conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure draw procedure draw up draw up the up the relevant the relevant documentation relevant documentation and documentation and establish and establish a establish a robust a robust post-market robust post-market monitoring post-market monitoring system.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the provider en the provider should the provider should establish provider should establish a should establish a sound establish a sound quality a sound quality management sound quality management system quality management system ensure management system ensure the system ensure the accomplishment ensure the accomplishment of the accomplishment of the accomplishment of the required of the required conformity the required conformity assessment required conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure draw assessment procedure draw up procedure draw up the draw up the relevant up the relevant documentation the relevant documentation and relevant documentation and establish documentation and establish a and establish a robust establish a robust post-market a robust post-market monitoring robust post-market monitoring system.
public authorities authorities which which put put into into service service high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems for for their their own own use use may may adopt adopt and and implement implement the the rules rules for for the the quality quality management management system system as as part part of of the the quality quality management management system system adopted adopted at at a a national national or or regional regional level level as as appropriate appropriate taking taking into into account account the the specificities specificities of of the the sector sector and and the the competences competences and and organisation organisation of of the the public public authority authority in in question.
public authorities which authorities which put which put into put into service into service high-risk service high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems for systems for their for their own their own use own use may use may adopt may adopt and adopt and implement and implement the implement the rules the rules for rules for the for the quality the quality management quality management system management system as system as part as part of part of the of the quality the quality management quality management system management system adopted system adopted at adopted at a at a national a national or national or regional or regional level regional level as level as appropriate as appropriate taking appropriate taking into taking into account into account the account the specificities the specificities of specificities of the of the sector the sector and sector and the and the competences the competences and competences and organisation and organisation of organisation of the of the public the public authority public authority in authority in question.
public authorities which put authorities which put into which put into service put into service high-risk into service high-risk ai service high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems for ai systems for their systems for their own for their own use their own use may own use may adopt use may adopt and may adopt and implement adopt and implement the and implement the rules implement the rules for the rules for the rules for the quality for the quality management the quality management system quality management system as management system as part system as part of as part of the part of the quality of the quality management the quality management system quality management system adopted management system adopted at system adopted at a adopted at a national at a national or a national or regional national or regional level or regional level as regional level as appropriate level as appropriate taking as appropriate taking into appropriate taking into account taking into account the into account the specificities account the specificities of the specificities of the specificities of the sector of the sector and the sector and the sector and the competences and the competences and the competences and organisation competences and organisation of and organisation of the organisation of the public of the public authority the public authority in public authority in question.
a to to ensure ensure legal legal certainty certainty it it is is necessary necessary to to clarify clarify that that under under certain certain specific specific conditions conditions any any natural natural or or legal legal person person should should be be considered considered a a provider provider of of a a new new high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and therefore therefore assume assume all all the the relevant relevant obligations.
a to ensure to ensure legal ensure legal certainty legal certainty it certainty it is it is necessary is necessary to necessary to clarify to clarify that clarify that under that under certain under certain specific certain specific conditions specific conditions any conditions any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person should person should be should be considered be considered a considered a provider a provider of provider of a of a new a new high-risk new high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and therefore and therefore assume therefore assume all assume all the all the relevant the relevant obligations.
a to ensure legal to ensure legal certainty ensure legal certainty it legal certainty it is certainty it is necessary it is necessary to is necessary to clarify necessary to clarify that to clarify that under clarify that under certain that under certain specific under certain specific conditions certain specific conditions any specific conditions any natural conditions any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person should legal person should be person should be considered should be considered a be considered a provider considered a provider of a provider of a provider of a new of a new high-risk a new high-risk ai new high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and therefore system and therefore assume and therefore assume all therefore assume all the assume all the relevant all the relevant obligations.
for example example this this would would be be the the case case if if that that person person puts puts its its name name or or trademark trademark on on a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system already already placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service or or if if that that person person modifies modifies the the intended intended purpose purpose of of an an ai ai system system which which is is not not high-risk high-risk and and is is already already placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service in in a a way way that that makes makes the the modified modified system system a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
for example this example this would this would be would be the be the case the case if case if that if that person that person puts person puts its puts its name its name or name or trademark or trademark on trademark on a on a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system already system already placed already placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service or service or if or if that if that person that person modifies person modifies the modifies the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of an of an ai an ai system ai system which system which is which is not is not high-risk not high-risk and high-risk and is and is already is already placed already placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service in service in a in a way a way that way that makes that makes the makes the modified the modified system modified system a system a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
for example this would example this would be this would be the would be the case be the case if the case if that case if that person if that person puts that person puts its person puts its name puts its name or its name or trademark name or trademark on or trademark on a trademark on a high-risk on a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system already ai system already placed system already placed on already placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service or into service or if service or if that or if that person if that person modifies that person modifies the person modifies the intended modifies the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of an purpose of an ai of an ai system an ai system which ai system which is system which is not which is not high-risk is not high-risk and not high-risk and is high-risk and is already and is already placed is already placed on already placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service in into service in a service in a way in a way that a way that makes way that makes the that makes the modified makes the modified system the modified system a modified system a high-risk system a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system.
these provisions provisions should should apply apply without without prejudice prejudice to to more more specific specific provisions provisions established established in in certain certain new new legislative legislative framework framework sectorial sectorial legislation legislation with with which which this this regulation regulation should should apply apply jointly.
these provisions should provisions should apply should apply without apply without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to more to more specific more specific provisions specific provisions established provisions established in established in certain in certain new certain new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework sectorial framework sectorial legislation sectorial legislation with legislation with which with which this which this regulation this regulation should regulation should apply should apply jointly.
these provisions should apply provisions should apply without should apply without prejudice apply without prejudice to without prejudice to more prejudice to more specific to more specific provisions more specific provisions established specific provisions established in provisions established in certain established in certain new in certain new legislative certain new legislative framework new legislative framework sectorial legislative framework sectorial legislation framework sectorial legislation with sectorial legislation with which legislation with which this with which this regulation which this regulation should this regulation should apply regulation should apply jointly.
for example example article article paragraph paragraph of of regulation regulation establishing establishing that that certain certain changes changes should should not not be be considered considered modifications modifications of of a a device device that that could could affect affect its its compliance compliance with with the the applicable applicable requirements requirements should should continue continue to to apply apply to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are medical medical devices devices within within the the meaning meaning of of that that regulation.
for example article example article paragraph article paragraph of paragraph of regulation of regulation establishing regulation establishing that establishing that certain that certain changes certain changes should changes should not should not be not be considered be considered modifications considered modifications of modifications of a of a device a device that device that could that could affect could affect its affect its compliance its compliance with compliance with the with the applicable the applicable requirements applicable requirements should requirements should continue should continue to continue to apply to apply to apply to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are medical are medical devices medical devices within devices within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of that of that regulation.
for example article paragraph example article paragraph of article paragraph of regulation paragraph of regulation establishing of regulation establishing that regulation establishing that certain establishing that certain changes that certain changes should certain changes should not changes should not be should not be considered not be considered modifications be considered modifications of considered modifications of a modifications of a device of a device that a device that could device that could affect that could affect its could affect its compliance affect its compliance with its compliance with the compliance with the applicable with the applicable requirements the applicable requirements should applicable requirements should continue requirements should continue to should continue to apply continue to apply to to apply to high-risk apply to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are medical that are medical devices are medical devices within medical devices within the devices within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of that meaning of that regulation.
where a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system that that is is a a safety safety component component of of a a product product which which is is covered covered by by a a relevant relevant new new legislative legislative framework framework sectorial sectorial legislation legislation is is not not placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service independently independently from from the the product product the the product product manufacturer manufacturer as as defined defined under under the the relevant relevant new new legislative legislative framework framework legislation legislation should should comply comply with with the the obligations obligations of of the the provider provider established established in in this this regulation regulation and and notably notably ensure ensure that that the the ai ai system system embedded embedded in in the the final final product product complies complies with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation.
where a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system that system that is that is a is a safety a safety component safety component of component of a of a product a product which product which is which is covered is covered by covered by a by a relevant a relevant new relevant new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework sectorial framework sectorial legislation sectorial legislation is legislation is not is not placed not placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service independently service independently from independently from the from the product the product the product the product the product manufacturer product manufacturer as manufacturer as defined as defined under defined under the under the relevant the relevant new relevant new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework legislation framework legislation should legislation should comply should comply with comply with the with the obligations the obligations of obligations of the of the provider the provider established provider established in established in this in this regulation this regulation and regulation and notably and notably ensure notably ensure that ensure that the that the ai the ai system ai system embedded system embedded in embedded in the in the final the final product final product complies product complies with complies with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation.
where a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system that ai system that is system that is a that is a safety is a safety component a safety component of safety component of a component of a product of a product which a product which is product which is covered which is covered by is covered by a covered by a relevant by a relevant new a relevant new legislative relevant new legislative framework new legislative framework sectorial legislative framework sectorial legislation framework sectorial legislation is sectorial legislation is not legislation is not placed is not placed on not placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service independently into service independently from service independently from the independently from the product from the product the the product the product product the product manufacturer the product manufacturer as product manufacturer as defined manufacturer as defined under as defined under the defined under the relevant under the relevant new the relevant new legislative relevant new legislative framework new legislative framework legislation legislative framework legislation should framework legislation should comply legislation should comply with should comply with the comply with the obligations with the obligations of the obligations of the obligations of the provider of the provider established the provider established in provider established in this established in this regulation in this regulation and this regulation and notably regulation and notably ensure and notably ensure that notably ensure that the ensure that the ai that the ai system the ai system embedded ai system embedded in system embedded in the embedded in the final in the final product the final product complies final product complies with product complies with the complies with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation.
tree..b rbek rbek en en to to enable enable enforcement enforcement of of this this regulation regulation and and create create a a level-playing level-playing field field for for operators operators and and taking taking into into account account the the different different forms forms of of making making available available of of digital digital products products it it is is important important to to ensure ensure that that under under all all circumstances circumstances a a person person established established in in the the union union can can provide provide authorities authorities with with all all the the necessary necessary information information on on the the compliance compliance of of an an ai ai system.
tree..b rbek en rbek en to en to enable to enable enforcement enable enforcement of enforcement of this of this regulation this regulation and regulation and create and create a create a level-playing a level-playing field level-playing field for field for operators for operators and operators and taking and taking into taking into account into account the account the different the different forms different forms of forms of making of making available making available of available of digital of digital products digital products it products it is it is important is important to important to ensure to ensure that ensure that under that under all under all circumstances all circumstances a circumstances a person a person established person established in established in the in the union the union can union can provide can provide authorities provide authorities with authorities with all with all the all the necessary the necessary information necessary information on information on the on the compliance the compliance of compliance of an of an ai an ai system.
tree..b rbek en to rbek en to enable en to enable enforcement to enable enforcement of enable enforcement of this enforcement of this regulation of this regulation and this regulation and create regulation and create a and create a level-playing create a level-playing field a level-playing field for level-playing field for operators field for operators and for operators and taking operators and taking into and taking into account taking into account the into account the different account the different forms the different forms of different forms of making forms of making available of making available of making available of digital available of digital products of digital products it digital products it is products it is important it is important to is important to ensure important to ensure that to ensure that under ensure that under all that under all circumstances under all circumstances a all circumstances a person circumstances a person established a person established in person established in the established in the union in the union can the union can provide union can provide authorities can provide authorities with provide authorities with all authorities with all the with all the necessary all the necessary information the necessary information on necessary information on the information on the compliance on the compliance of the compliance of an compliance of an ai of an ai system.
therefore prior prior to to making making their their ai ai systems systems available available in in the the union union where where an an importer importer cannot cannot be be identified identified providers providers established established outside outside the the union union shall shall by by written written mandate mandate appoint appoint an an authorised authorised representative representative established established in in the the union.
therefore prior to prior to making to making their making their ai their ai systems ai systems available systems available in available in the in the union the union where union where an where an importer an importer cannot importer cannot be cannot be identified be identified providers identified providers established providers established outside established outside the outside the union the union shall union shall by shall by written by written mandate written mandate appoint mandate appoint an appoint an authorised an authorised representative authorised representative established representative established in established in the in the union.
therefore prior to making prior to making their to making their ai making their ai systems their ai systems available ai systems available in systems available in the available in the union in the union where the union where an union where an importer where an importer cannot an importer cannot be importer cannot be identified cannot be identified providers be identified providers established identified providers established outside providers established outside the established outside the union outside the union shall the union shall by union shall by written shall by written mandate by written mandate appoint written mandate appoint an mandate appoint an authorised appoint an authorised representative an authorised representative established authorised representative established in representative established in the established in the union.
a for for providers providers who who are are not not established established in in the the union union the the authorised authorised representative representative plays plays a a pivotal pivotal role role in in ensuring ensuring the the compliance compliance of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service in in the the union union by by those those providers providers and and in in serving serving as as their their contact contact person person established established in in the the union.
a for providers for providers who providers who are who are not are not established not established in established in the in the union the union the union the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative plays representative plays a plays a pivotal a pivotal role pivotal role in role in ensuring in ensuring the ensuring the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems placed systems placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service in service in the in the union the union by union by those by those providers those providers and providers and in and in serving in serving as serving as their as their contact their contact person contact person established person established in established in the in the union.
a for providers who for providers who are providers who are not who are not established are not established in not established in the established in the union in the union the the union the authorised union the authorised representative the authorised representative plays authorised representative plays a representative plays a pivotal plays a pivotal role a pivotal role in pivotal role in ensuring role in ensuring the in ensuring the compliance ensuring the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems placed ai systems placed on systems placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service in into service in the service in the union in the union by the union by those union by those providers by those providers and those providers and in providers and in serving and in serving as in serving as their serving as their contact as their contact person their contact person established contact person established in person established in the established in the union.
given that that pivotal pivotal role role and and in in order order to to ensure ensure that that responsibility responsibility is is assumed assumed for for the the purposes purposes of of enforcement enforcement of of this this regulation regulation it it is is appropriate appropriate to to make make the the authorised authorised representative representative jointly jointly and and severally severally liable liable with with the the provider provider for for defective defective high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
given that pivotal that pivotal role pivotal role and role and in and in order in order to order to ensure to ensure that ensure that responsibility that responsibility is responsibility is assumed is assumed for assumed for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of enforcement of enforcement of enforcement of this of this regulation this regulation it regulation it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to make to make the make the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative jointly representative jointly and jointly and severally and severally liable severally liable with liable with the with the provider the provider for provider for defective for defective high-risk defective high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
given that pivotal role that pivotal role and pivotal role and in role and in order and in order to in order to ensure order to ensure that to ensure that responsibility ensure that responsibility is that responsibility is assumed responsibility is assumed for is assumed for the assumed for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of enforcement purposes of enforcement of of enforcement of this enforcement of this regulation of this regulation it this regulation it is regulation it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to make appropriate to make the to make the authorised make the authorised representative the authorised representative jointly authorised representative jointly and representative jointly and severally jointly and severally liable and severally liable with severally liable with the liable with the provider with the provider for the provider for defective provider for defective high-risk for defective high-risk ai defective high-risk ai systems.
the liability liability of of the the authorised authorised representative representative provided provided for for in in this this regulation regulation is is without without prejudice prejudice to to the the provisions provisions of of directive directive eec eec on on liability liability for for defective defective products.
the liability of liability of the of the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative provided representative provided for provided for in for in this in this regulation this regulation is regulation is without is without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the provisions the provisions of provisions of directive of directive eec directive eec on eec on liability on liability for liability for defective for defective products.
the liability of the liability of the authorised of the authorised representative the authorised representative provided authorised representative provided for representative provided for in provided for in this for in this regulation in this regulation is this regulation is without regulation is without prejudice is without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the provisions to the provisions of the provisions of directive provisions of directive eec of directive eec on directive eec on liability eec on liability for on liability for defective liability for defective products.
deleted given given the the nature nature of of ai ai systems systems and and the the risks risks to to safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights possibly possibly associated associated with with their their use use including including as as regard regard the the need need to to ensure ensure proper proper monitoring monitoring of of the the performance performance of of an an ai ai system system in in a a real-life real-life setting setting it it is is appropriate appropriate to to set set specific specific responsibilities responsibilities for for users.
deleted given the given the nature the nature of nature of ai of ai systems ai systems and systems and the and the risks the risks to risks to safety to safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights possibly rights possibly associated possibly associated with associated with their with their use their use including use including as including as regard as regard the regard the need the need to need to ensure to ensure proper ensure proper monitoring proper monitoring of monitoring of the of the performance the performance of performance of an of an ai an ai system ai system in system in a in a real-life a real-life setting real-life setting it setting it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to set to set specific set specific responsibilities specific responsibilities for responsibilities for users.
deleted given the nature given the nature of the nature of ai nature of ai systems of ai systems and ai systems and the systems and the risks and the risks to the risks to safety risks to safety and to safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights possibly fundamental rights possibly associated rights possibly associated with possibly associated with their associated with their use with their use including their use including as use including as regard including as regard the as regard the need regard the need to the need to ensure need to ensure proper to ensure proper monitoring ensure proper monitoring of proper monitoring of the monitoring of the performance of the performance of the performance of an performance of an ai of an ai system an ai system in ai system in a system in a real-life in a real-life setting a real-life setting it real-life setting it is setting it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to set appropriate to set specific to set specific responsibilities set specific responsibilities for specific responsibilities for users.
users should should in in particular particular use use high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems in in accordance accordance with with the the instructions instructions of of use use and and certain certain other other obligations obligations should should be be provided provided for for with with regard regard to to monitoring monitoring of of the the functioning functioning of of the the ai ai systems systems and and with with regard regard to to record-keeping record-keeping as as appropriate.
users should in should in particular in particular use particular use high-risk use high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems in systems in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the instructions the instructions of instructions of use of use and use and certain and certain other certain other obligations other obligations should obligations should be should be provided be provided for provided for with for with regard with regard to regard to monitoring to monitoring of monitoring of the of the functioning the functioning of functioning of the of the ai the ai systems ai systems and systems and with and with regard with regard to regard to record-keeping to record-keeping as record-keeping as appropriate.
users should in particular should in particular use in particular use high-risk particular use high-risk ai use high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems in ai systems in accordance systems in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the instructions with the instructions of the instructions of use instructions of use and of use and certain use and certain other and certain other obligations certain other obligations should other obligations should be obligations should be provided should be provided for be provided for with provided for with regard for with regard to with regard to monitoring regard to monitoring of to monitoring of the monitoring of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the ai of the ai systems the ai systems and ai systems and with systems and with regard and with regard to with regard to record-keeping regard to record-keeping as to record-keeping as appropriate.
these obligations obligations should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to other other user user obligations obligations in in relation relation to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems under under union union or or national national law law and and should should not not apply apply where where the the use use is is made made in in the the course course of of a a personal personal non-professional non-professional activity.
these obligations should obligations should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to other to other user other user obligations user obligations in obligations in relation in relation to relation to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems under systems under union under union or union or national or national law national law and law and should and should not should not apply not apply where apply where the where the use the use is use is made is made in made in the in the course the course of course of a of a personal a personal non-professional personal non-professional activity.
these obligations should be obligations should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to other prejudice to other user to other user obligations other user obligations in user obligations in relation obligations in relation to in relation to high-risk relation to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems under ai systems under union systems under union or under union or national union or national law or national law and national law and should law and should not and should not apply should not apply where not apply where the apply where the use where the use is the use is made use is made in is made in the made in the course in the course of the course of a course of a personal of a personal non-professional a personal non-professional activity.
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a it it is is appropriate appropriate to to clarify clarify that that this this regulation regulation does does not not affect affect the the obligations obligations of of providers providers and and users users of of ai ai systems systems in in their their role role as as data data controllers controllers or or processors processors stemming stemming from from union union law law on on the the protection protection of of personal personal data data in in so so far far as as the the design design the the development development or or the the use use of of ai ai systems systems involves involves the the processing processing of of personal personal data.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a it a it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to clarify to clarify that clarify that this that this regulation this regulation does regulation does not does not affect not affect the affect the obligations the obligations of obligations of providers of providers and providers and users and users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems in systems in their in their role their role as role as data as data controllers data controllers or controllers or processors or processors stemming processors stemming from stemming from union from union law union law on law on the on the protection the protection of protection of personal of personal data personal data in data in so in so far so far as far as the as the design the design the design the development the development or development or the or the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems involves systems involves the involves the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a it en a it is a it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to clarify appropriate to clarify that to clarify that this clarify that this regulation that this regulation does this regulation does not regulation does not affect does not affect the not affect the obligations affect the obligations of the obligations of providers obligations of providers and of providers and users providers and users of and users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems in ai systems in their systems in their role in their role as their role as data role as data controllers as data controllers or data controllers or processors controllers or processors stemming or processors stemming from processors stemming from union stemming from union law from union law on union law on the law on the protection on the protection of the protection of personal protection of personal data of personal data in personal data in so data in so far in so far as so far as the far as the design as the design the the design the development design the development or the development or the development or the use or the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems involves ai systems involves the systems involves the processing involves the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data.
it is is also also appropriate appropriate to to clarify clarify that that data data subjects subjects continue continue to to enjoy enjoy all all the the rights rights and and guarantees guarantees awarded awarded to to them them by by such such union union law law including including the the rights rights related related to to solely solely automated automated individual individual decision-making decision-making including including profiling.
it is also is also appropriate also appropriate to appropriate to clarify to clarify that clarify that data that data subjects data subjects continue subjects continue to continue to enjoy to enjoy all enjoy all the all the rights the rights and rights and guarantees and guarantees awarded guarantees awarded to awarded to them to them by them by such by such union such union law union law including law including the including the rights the rights related rights related to related to solely to solely automated solely automated individual automated individual decision-making individual decision-making including decision-making including profiling.
it is also appropriate is also appropriate to also appropriate to clarify appropriate to clarify that to clarify that data clarify that data subjects that data subjects continue data subjects continue to subjects continue to enjoy continue to enjoy all to enjoy all the enjoy all the rights all the rights and the rights and guarantees rights and guarantees awarded and guarantees awarded to guarantees awarded to them awarded to them by to them by such them by such union by such union law such union law including union law including the law including the rights including the rights related the rights related to rights related to solely related to solely automated to solely automated individual solely automated individual decision-making automated individual decision-making including individual decision-making including profiling.
harmonised rules rules for for the the placing placing on on the the market market the the putting putting into into service service and and the the use use of of ai ai systems systems established established under under this this regulation regulation should should facilitate facilitate the the effective effective implementation implementation and and enable enable the the exercise exercise of of the the data data subjects’ subjects’ rights rights and and other other remedies remedies guaranteed guaranteed under under union union law law on on the the protection protection of of personal personal data data and and of of other other fundamental fundamental rights.
harmonised rules for rules for the for the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market the market the putting the putting into putting into service into service and service and the and the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems established systems established under established under this under this regulation this regulation should regulation should facilitate should facilitate the facilitate the effective the effective implementation effective implementation and implementation and enable and enable the enable the exercise the exercise of exercise of the of the data the data subjects’ data subjects’ rights subjects’ rights and rights and other and other remedies other remedies guaranteed remedies guaranteed under guaranteed under union under union law union law on law on the on the protection the protection of protection of personal of personal data personal data and data and of and of other of other fundamental other fundamental rights.
harmonised rules for the rules for the placing for the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market the the market the putting market the putting into the putting into service putting into service and into service and the service and the use and the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems established ai systems established under systems established under this established under this regulation under this regulation should this regulation should facilitate regulation should facilitate the should facilitate the effective facilitate the effective implementation the effective implementation and effective implementation and enable implementation and enable the and enable the exercise enable the exercise of the exercise of the exercise of the data of the data subjects’ the data subjects’ rights data subjects’ rights and subjects’ rights and other rights and other remedies and other remedies guaranteed other remedies guaranteed under remedies guaranteed under union guaranteed under union law under union law on union law on the law on the protection on the protection of the protection of personal protection of personal data of personal data and personal data and of data and of other and of other fundamental of other fundamental rights.
deleted deleted deleted tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en standardisation standardisation should should play play a a key key role role to to provide provide technical technical solutions solutions to to providers providers to to ensure ensure compliance compliance with with this this regulation regulation in in line line with with the the state state of of the the art.
deleted deleted tree..b deleted tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en standardisation en standardisation should standardisation should play should play a play a key a key role key role to role to provide to provide technical provide technical solutions technical solutions to solutions to providers to providers to providers to ensure to ensure compliance ensure compliance with compliance with this with this regulation this regulation in regulation in line in line with line with the with the state the state of state of the of the art.
deleted deleted tree..b rbek deleted tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en standardisation rbek en standardisation should en standardisation should play standardisation should play a should play a key play a key role a key role to key role to provide role to provide technical to provide technical solutions provide technical solutions to technical solutions to providers solutions to providers to to providers to ensure providers to ensure compliance to ensure compliance with ensure compliance with this compliance with this regulation with this regulation in this regulation in line regulation in line with in line with the line with the state with the state of the state of the state of the art.
compliance with with harmonised harmonised standards standards as as defined defined in in regulation regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council which which are are normally normally expected expected to to reflect reflect the the state state of of the the artshould artshould be be a a means means for for providers providers to to demonstrate demonstrate conformity conformity with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation.
compliance with harmonised with harmonised standards harmonised standards as standards as defined as defined in defined in regulation in regulation eu regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council which council which are which are normally are normally expected normally expected to expected to reflect to reflect the reflect the state the state of state of the of the artshould the artshould be artshould be a be a means a means for means for providers for providers to providers to demonstrate to demonstrate conformity demonstrate conformity with conformity with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation.
compliance with harmonised standards with harmonised standards as harmonised standards as defined standards as defined in as defined in regulation defined in regulation eu in regulation eu no regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council which the council which are council which are normally which are normally expected are normally expected to normally expected to reflect expected to reflect the to reflect the state reflect the state of the state of the state of the artshould of the artshould be the artshould be a artshould be a means be a means for a means for providers means for providers to for providers to demonstrate providers to demonstrate conformity to demonstrate conformity with demonstrate conformity with the conformity with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation.
however in in the the absence absence of of relevant relevant references references to to harmonised harmonised standards standards the the commission commission should should be be able able to to establish establish via via implementing implementing acts acts common common specifications specifications for for certain certain requirements requirements under under this this regulation regulation as as an an exceptional exceptional fall fall back back solution solution to to facilitate facilitate the the provider’s provider’s obligation obligation to to comply comply with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation when when the the standardisation standardisation process process is is blocked blocked or or when when there there are are delays delays in in the the establishment establishment of of an an appropriate appropriate harmonised harmonised standard.
however in the in the absence the absence of absence of relevant of relevant references relevant references to references to harmonised to harmonised standards harmonised standards the standards the commission the commission should commission should be should be able be able to able to establish to establish via establish via implementing via implementing acts implementing acts common acts common specifications common specifications for specifications for certain for certain requirements certain requirements under requirements under this under this regulation this regulation as regulation as an as an exceptional an exceptional fall exceptional fall back fall back solution back solution to solution to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the provider’s the provider’s obligation provider’s obligation to obligation to comply to comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation when regulation when the when the standardisation the standardisation process standardisation process is process is blocked is blocked or blocked or when or when there when there are there are delays are delays in delays in the in the establishment the establishment of establishment of an of an appropriate an appropriate harmonised appropriate harmonised standard.
however in the absence in the absence of the absence of relevant absence of relevant references of relevant references to relevant references to harmonised references to harmonised standards to harmonised standards the harmonised standards the commission standards the commission should the commission should be commission should be able should be able to be able to establish able to establish via to establish via implementing establish via implementing acts via implementing acts common implementing acts common specifications acts common specifications for common specifications for certain specifications for certain requirements for certain requirements under certain requirements under this requirements under this regulation under this regulation as this regulation as an regulation as an exceptional as an exceptional fall an exceptional fall back exceptional fall back solution fall back solution to back solution to facilitate solution to facilitate the to facilitate the provider’s facilitate the provider’s obligation the provider’s obligation to provider’s obligation to comply obligation to comply with to comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation when this regulation when the regulation when the standardisation when the standardisation process the standardisation process is standardisation process is blocked process is blocked or is blocked or when blocked or when there or when there are when there are delays there are delays in are delays in the delays in the establishment in the establishment of the establishment of an establishment of an appropriate of an appropriate harmonised an appropriate harmonised standard.
if such such delay delay is is due due to to the the technical technical complexity complexity of of the the standard standard in in question question this this should should be be considered considered by by the the commission commission before before contemplating contemplating the the establishment establishment of of common common specifications.
if such delay such delay is delay is due is due to due to the to the technical the technical complexity technical complexity of complexity of the of the standard the standard in standard in question in question this question this should this should be should be considered be considered by considered by the by the commission the commission before commission before contemplating before contemplating the contemplating the establishment the establishment of establishment of common of common specifications.
if such delay is such delay is due delay is due to is due to the due to the technical to the technical complexity the technical complexity of technical complexity of the complexity of the standard of the standard in the standard in question standard in question this in question this should question this should be this should be considered should be considered by be considered by the considered by the commission by the commission before the commission before contemplating commission before contemplating the before contemplating the establishment contemplating the establishment of the establishment of common establishment of common specifications.
an appropriate appropriate involvement involvement of of small small and and medium medium enterprises enterprises in in the the elaboration elaboration of of standards standards supporting supporting the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation is is essential essential to to promote promote innovation innovation and and competitiveness competitiveness in in the the field field of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence within within the the union.
an appropriate involvement appropriate involvement of involvement of small of small and small and medium and medium enterprises medium enterprises in enterprises in the in the elaboration the elaboration of elaboration of standards of standards supporting standards supporting the supporting the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation is regulation is essential is essential to essential to promote to promote innovation promote innovation and innovation and competitiveness and competitiveness in competitiveness in the in the field the field of field of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence within intelligence within the within the union.
an appropriate involvement of appropriate involvement of small involvement of small and of small and medium small and medium enterprises and medium enterprises in medium enterprises in the enterprises in the elaboration in the elaboration of the elaboration of standards elaboration of standards supporting of standards supporting the standards supporting the implementation supporting the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation is this regulation is essential regulation is essential to is essential to promote essential to promote innovation to promote innovation and promote innovation and competitiveness innovation and competitiveness in and competitiveness in the competitiveness in the field in the field of the field of artificial field of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence within artificial intelligence within the intelligence within the union.
such involvement involvement should should be be appropriately appropriately ensured ensured in in accordance accordance with with article article and and of of regulation regulation .
such involvement should involvement should be should be appropriately be appropriately ensured appropriately ensured in ensured in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article and article and of and of regulation of regulation .
such involvement should be involvement should be appropriately should be appropriately ensured be appropriately ensured in appropriately ensured in accordance ensured in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article and with article and of article and of regulation and of regulation .
regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of october october on on european european standardisation standardisation amending amending council council directives directives eec eec and and eec eec and and directives directives ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec and and ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council and and repealing repealing council council decision decision eec eec and and decision decision no no ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of october of october on october on european on european standardisation european standardisation amending standardisation amending council amending council directives council directives eec directives eec and eec and eec and eec and eec and directives and directives ec directives ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec and ec and ec and ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council and council and repealing and repealing council repealing council decision council decision eec decision eec and eec and decision and decision no decision no ec no ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council oj council oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of october council of october on of october on european october on european standardisation on european standardisation amending european standardisation amending council standardisation amending council directives amending council directives eec council directives eec and directives eec and eec eec and eec and and eec and directives eec and directives ec and directives ec ec directives ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec ec and ec ec and ec ec and ec of and ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council and the council and repealing council and repealing council and repealing council decision repealing council decision eec council decision eec and decision eec and decision eec and decision no and decision no ec decision no ec of no ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council oj the council oj l council oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a it it is is appropriate appropriate that that without without prejudice prejudice to to the the use use of of harmonised harmonised standards standards and and common common specifications specifications providers providers benefit benefit from from a a presumption presumption of of conformity conformity with with the the relevant relevant requirement requirement on on data data when when their their high-risk high-risk ai ai system system has has been been trained trained and and tested tested on on data data reflecting reflecting the the specific specific geographical geographical behavioural behavioural or or functional functional setting setting within within which which the the ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a it a it is it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that without that without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the use the use of use of harmonised of harmonised standards harmonised standards and standards and common and common specifications common specifications providers specifications providers benefit providers benefit from benefit from a from a presumption a presumption of presumption of conformity of conformity with conformity with the with the relevant the relevant requirement relevant requirement on requirement on data on data when data when their when their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system has system has been has been trained been trained and trained and tested and tested on tested on data on data reflecting data reflecting the reflecting the specific the specific geographical specific geographical behavioural geographical behavioural or behavioural or functional or functional setting functional setting within setting within which within which the which the ai the ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a it en a it is a it is appropriate it is appropriate that is appropriate that without appropriate that without prejudice that without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the use to the use of the use of harmonised use of harmonised standards of harmonised standards and harmonised standards and common standards and common specifications and common specifications providers common specifications providers benefit specifications providers benefit from providers benefit from a benefit from a presumption from a presumption of a presumption of conformity presumption of conformity with of conformity with the conformity with the relevant with the relevant requirement the relevant requirement on relevant requirement on data requirement on data when on data when their data when their high-risk when their high-risk ai their high-risk ai system high-risk ai system has ai system has been system has been trained has been trained and been trained and tested trained and tested on and tested on data tested on data reflecting on data reflecting the data reflecting the specific reflecting the specific geographical the specific geographical behavioural specific geographical behavioural or geographical behavioural or functional behavioural or functional setting or functional setting within functional setting within which setting within which the within which the ai which the ai system the ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
similarly in in line line with with article article of of regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that have have been been certified certified or or for for which which a a statement statement of of conformity conformity has has been been issued issued under under a a cybersecurity cybersecurity scheme scheme pursuant pursuant to to that that regulation regulation and and the the references references of of which which have have been been published published in in the the official official journal journal of of the the european european union union should should be be presumed presumed to to be be in in compliance compliance with with the the cybersecurity cybersecurity requirement requirement of of this this regulation.
similarly in line in line with line with article with article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council high-risk council high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that have that have been have been certified been certified or certified or for or for which for which a which a statement a statement of statement of conformity of conformity has conformity has been has been issued been issued under issued under a under a cybersecurity a cybersecurity scheme cybersecurity scheme pursuant scheme pursuant to pursuant to that to that regulation that regulation and regulation and the and the references the references of references of which of which have which have been have been published been published in published in the in the official the official journal official journal of journal of the of the european the european union european union should union should be should be presumed be presumed to presumed to be to be in be in compliance in compliance with compliance with the with the cybersecurity the cybersecurity requirement cybersecurity requirement of requirement of this of this regulation.
similarly in line with in line with article line with article of with article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council high-risk the council high-risk ai council high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that have systems that have been that have been certified have been certified or been certified or for certified or for which or for which a for which a statement which a statement of a statement of conformity statement of conformity has of conformity has been conformity has been issued has been issued under been issued under a issued under a cybersecurity under a cybersecurity scheme a cybersecurity scheme pursuant cybersecurity scheme pursuant to scheme pursuant to that pursuant to that regulation to that regulation and that regulation and the regulation and the references and the references of the references of which references of which have of which have been which have been published have been published in been published in the published in the official in the official journal the official journal of official journal of the journal of the european of the european union the european union should european union should be union should be presumed should be presumed to be presumed to be presumed to be in to be in compliance be in compliance with in compliance with the compliance with the cybersecurity with the cybersecurity requirement the cybersecurity requirement of cybersecurity requirement of this requirement of this regulation.
this remains remains without without prejudice prejudice to to the the voluntary voluntary nature nature of of that that cybersecurity cybersecurity scheme.
this remains without remains without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the voluntary the voluntary nature voluntary nature of nature of that of that cybersecurity that cybersecurity scheme.
this remains without prejudice remains without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the voluntary to the voluntary nature the voluntary nature of voluntary nature of that nature of that cybersecurity of that cybersecurity scheme.
in order order to to ensure ensure a a high high level level of of trustworthiness trustworthiness of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems those those systems systems should should be be subject subject to to a a conformity conformity assessment assessment prior prior to to their their placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service.
in order to order to ensure to ensure a ensure a high a high level high level of level of trustworthiness of trustworthiness of trustworthiness of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems those systems those systems those systems should systems should be should be subject be subject to subject to a to a conformity a conformity assessment conformity assessment prior assessment prior to prior to their to their placing their placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service.
in order to ensure order to ensure a to ensure a high ensure a high level a high level of high level of trustworthiness level of trustworthiness of of trustworthiness of high-risk trustworthiness of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems those ai systems those systems systems those systems should those systems should be systems should be subject should be subject to be subject to a subject to a conformity to a conformity assessment a conformity assessment prior conformity assessment prior to assessment prior to their prior to their placing to their placing on their placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service.
tree..b rbek rbek en en it it is is appropriate appropriate that that in in order order to to minimise minimise the the burden burden on on operators operators and and avoid avoid any any possible possible duplication duplication for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems related related to to products products which which are are covered covered by by existing existing union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation following following the the new new legislative legislative framework framework approach approach the the compliance compliance of of those those ai ai systems systems with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation should should be be assessed assessed as as part part of of the the conformity conformity assessment assessment already already foreseen foreseen under under that that legislation.
tree..b rbek en rbek en it en it is it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that in that in order in order to order to minimise to minimise the minimise the burden the burden on burden on operators on operators and operators and avoid and avoid any avoid any possible any possible duplication possible duplication for duplication for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems related systems related to related to products to products which products which are which are covered are covered by covered by existing by existing union existing union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation following legislation following the following the new the new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework approach framework approach the approach the compliance the compliance of compliance of those of those ai those ai systems ai systems with systems with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be assessed be assessed as assessed as part as part of part of the of the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment already assessment already foreseen already foreseen under foreseen under that under that legislation.
tree..b rbek en it rbek en it is en it is appropriate it is appropriate that is appropriate that in appropriate that in order that in order to in order to minimise order to minimise the to minimise the burden minimise the burden on the burden on operators burden on operators and on operators and avoid operators and avoid any and avoid any possible avoid any possible duplication any possible duplication for possible duplication for high-risk duplication for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems related ai systems related to systems related to products related to products which to products which are products which are covered which are covered by are covered by existing covered by existing union by existing union harmonisation existing union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation following harmonisation legislation following the legislation following the new following the new legislative the new legislative framework new legislative framework approach legislative framework approach the framework approach the compliance approach the compliance of the compliance of those compliance of those ai of those ai systems those ai systems with ai systems with the systems with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be assessed should be assessed as be assessed as part assessed as part of as part of the part of the conformity of the conformity assessment the conformity assessment already conformity assessment already foreseen assessment already foreseen under already foreseen under that foreseen under that legislation.
the applicability applicability of of the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation should should thus thus not not affect affect the the specific specific logic logic methodology methodology or or general general structure structure of of conformity conformity assessment assessment under under the the relevant relevant specific specific new new legislative legislative framework framework legislation.
the applicability of applicability of the of the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should thus should thus not thus not affect not affect the affect the specific the specific logic specific logic methodology logic methodology or methodology or general or general structure general structure of structure of conformity of conformity assessment conformity assessment under assessment under the under the relevant the relevant specific relevant specific new specific new legislative new legislative framework legislative framework legislation.
the applicability of the applicability of the requirements of the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should thus regulation should thus not should thus not affect thus not affect the not affect the specific affect the specific logic the specific logic methodology specific logic methodology or logic methodology or general methodology or general structure or general structure of general structure of conformity structure of conformity assessment of conformity assessment under conformity assessment under the assessment under the relevant under the relevant specific the relevant specific new relevant specific new legislative specific new legislative framework new legislative framework legislation.
this approach approach is is fully fully reflected reflected in in the the interplay interplay between between this this regulation regulation and and the the machinery machinery regulation.
this approach is approach is fully is fully reflected fully reflected in reflected in the in the interplay the interplay between interplay between this between this regulation this regulation and regulation and the and the machinery the machinery regulation.
this approach is fully approach is fully reflected is fully reflected in fully reflected in the reflected in the interplay in the interplay between the interplay between this interplay between this regulation between this regulation and this regulation and the regulation and the machinery and the machinery regulation.
while safety safety risks risks of of ai ai systems systems ensuring ensuring safety safety functions functions in in machinery machinery are are addressed addressed by by the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation certain certain specific specific requirements requirements in in the the machinery machinery regulation regulation will will ensure ensure the the safe safe integration integration of of the the ai ai system system into into the the overall overall machinery machinery so so as as not not to to compromise compromise the the safety safety of of the the machinery machinery as as a a whole.
while safety risks safety risks of risks of ai of ai systems ai systems ensuring systems ensuring safety ensuring safety functions safety functions in functions in machinery in machinery are machinery are addressed are addressed by addressed by the by the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation certain regulation certain specific certain specific requirements specific requirements in requirements in the in the machinery the machinery regulation machinery regulation will regulation will ensure will ensure the ensure the safe the safe integration safe integration of integration of the of the ai the ai system ai system into system into the into the overall the overall machinery overall machinery so machinery so as so as not as not to not to compromise to compromise the compromise the safety the safety of safety of the of the machinery the machinery as machinery as a as a whole.
while safety risks of safety risks of ai risks of ai systems of ai systems ensuring ai systems ensuring safety systems ensuring safety functions ensuring safety functions in safety functions in machinery functions in machinery are in machinery are addressed machinery are addressed by are addressed by the addressed by the requirements by the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation certain this regulation certain specific regulation certain specific requirements certain specific requirements in specific requirements in the requirements in the machinery in the machinery regulation the machinery regulation will machinery regulation will ensure regulation will ensure the will ensure the safe ensure the safe integration the safe integration of safe integration of the integration of the ai of the ai system the ai system into ai system into the system into the overall into the overall machinery the overall machinery so overall machinery so as machinery so as not so as not to as not to compromise not to compromise the to compromise the safety compromise the safety of the safety of the safety of the machinery of the machinery as the machinery as a machinery as a whole.
the machinery machinery regulation regulation applies applies the the same same definition definition of of ai ai system system as as this this regulation.
the machinery regulation machinery regulation applies regulation applies the applies the same the same definition same definition of definition of ai of ai system ai system as system as this as this regulation.
the machinery regulation applies machinery regulation applies the regulation applies the same applies the same definition the same definition of same definition of ai definition of ai system of ai system as ai system as this system as this regulation.
with regard regard to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems related related to to products products covered covered by by regulations regulations and and on on medical medical devices devices the the applicability applicability of of the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation should should be be without without prejudice prejudice and and take take into into account account the the risk risk management management logic logic and and benefit-risk benefit-risk assessment assessment performed performed under under the the medical medical device device framework.
with regard to regard to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems related systems related to related to products to products covered products covered by covered by regulations by regulations and regulations and on and on medical on medical devices medical devices the devices the applicability the applicability of applicability of the of the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice and prejudice and take and take into take into account into account the account the risk the risk management risk management logic management logic and logic and benefit-risk and benefit-risk assessment benefit-risk assessment performed assessment performed under performed under the under the medical the medical device medical device framework.
with regard to high-risk regard to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems related ai systems related to systems related to products related to products covered to products covered by products covered by regulations covered by regulations and by regulations and on regulations and on medical and on medical devices on medical devices the medical devices the applicability devices the applicability of the applicability of the applicability of the requirements of the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice and without prejudice and take prejudice and take into and take into account take into account the into account the risk account the risk management the risk management logic risk management logic and management logic and benefit-risk logic and benefit-risk assessment and benefit-risk assessment performed benefit-risk assessment performed under assessment performed under the performed under the medical under the medical device the medical device framework.
given the the more more extensive extensive experience experience of of professional professional pre-market pre-market certifiers certifiers in in the the field field of of product product safety safety and and the the different different nature nature of of risks risks involved involved it it is is appropriate appropriate to to limit limit at at least least in in an an initial initial phase phase of of application application of of this this regulation regulation the the scope scope of of application application of of third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems other other than than those those related related to to products.
given the more the more extensive more extensive experience extensive experience of experience of professional of professional pre-market professional pre-market certifiers pre-market certifiers in certifiers in the in the field the field of field of product of product safety product safety and safety and the and the different the different nature different nature of nature of risks of risks involved risks involved it involved it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to limit to limit at limit at least at least in least in an in an initial an initial phase initial phase of phase of application of application of application of this of this regulation this regulation the regulation the scope the scope of scope of application of application of application of third-party of third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment for assessment for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems other systems other than other than those than those related those related to related to products.
given the more extensive the more extensive experience more extensive experience of extensive experience of professional experience of professional pre-market of professional pre-market certifiers professional pre-market certifiers in pre-market certifiers in the certifiers in the field in the field of the field of product field of product safety of product safety and product safety and the safety and the different and the different nature the different nature of different nature of risks nature of risks involved of risks involved it risks involved it is involved it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to limit appropriate to limit at to limit at least limit at least in at least in an least in an initial in an initial phase an initial phase of initial phase of application phase of application of of application of this application of this regulation of this regulation the this regulation the scope regulation the scope of the scope of application scope of application of of application of third-party application of third-party conformity of third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment for conformity assessment for high-risk assessment for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems other ai systems other than systems other than those other than those related than those related to those related to products.
therefore the the conformity conformity assessment assessment of of such such systems systems should should be be carried carried out out as as a a general general rule rule by by the the provider provider under under its its own own responsibility responsibility with with the the only only exception exception of of ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used for for the the remote remote biometric biometric identification identification of of persons persons for for which which the the involvement involvement of of a a notified notified body body in in the the conformity conformity assessment assessment should should be be foreseen foreseen to to the the extent extent they they are are not not prohibited.
therefore the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment of assessment of such of such systems such systems should systems should be should be carried be carried out carried out as out as a as a general a general rule general rule by rule by the by the provider the provider under provider under its under its own its own responsibility own responsibility with responsibility with the with the only the only exception only exception of exception of ai of ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used for used for the for the remote the remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification of identification of persons of persons for persons for which for which the which the involvement the involvement of involvement of a of a notified a notified body notified body in body in the in the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment should assessment should be should be foreseen be foreseen to foreseen to the to the extent the extent they extent they are they are not are not prohibited.
therefore the conformity assessment the conformity assessment of conformity assessment of such assessment of such systems of such systems should such systems should be systems should be carried should be carried out be carried out as carried out as a out as a general as a general rule a general rule by general rule by the rule by the provider by the provider under the provider under its provider under its own under its own responsibility its own responsibility with own responsibility with the responsibility with the only with the only exception the only exception of only exception of ai exception of ai systems of ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used for be used for the used for the remote for the remote biometric the remote biometric identification remote biometric identification of biometric identification of persons identification of persons for of persons for which persons for which the for which the involvement which the involvement of the involvement of a involvement of a notified of a notified body a notified body in notified body in the body in the conformity in the conformity assessment the conformity assessment should conformity assessment should be assessment should be foreseen should be foreseen to be foreseen to the foreseen to the extent to the extent they the extent they are extent they are not they are not prohibited.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to carry carry out out third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment for for ai ai systems systems intended intended to to be be used used for for the the remote remote biometric biometric identification identification of of persons persons notified notified bodies bodies should should be be notified notified under under this this regulation regulation by by the the national national competent competent authorities authorities provided provided they they are are compliant compliant with with a a set set of of requirements requirements notably notably on on independence independence competence competence and and absence absence of of conflicts conflicts of of interests.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to carry to carry out carry out third-party out third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment for assessment for ai for ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to be to be used be used for used for the for the remote the remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification of identification of persons of persons notified persons notified bodies notified bodies should bodies should be should be notified be notified under notified under this under this regulation this regulation by regulation by the by the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities provided authorities provided they provided they are they are compliant are compliant with compliant with a with a set a set of set of requirements of requirements notably requirements notably on notably on independence on independence competence independence competence and competence and absence and absence of absence of conflicts of conflicts of conflicts of interests.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to carry order to carry out to carry out third-party carry out third-party conformity out third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment for conformity assessment for ai assessment for ai systems for ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to be intended to be used to be used for be used for the used for the remote for the remote biometric the remote biometric identification remote biometric identification of biometric identification of persons identification of persons notified of persons notified bodies persons notified bodies should notified bodies should be bodies should be notified should be notified under be notified under this notified under this regulation under this regulation by this regulation by the regulation by the national by the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities provided competent authorities provided they authorities provided they are provided they are compliant they are compliant with are compliant with a compliant with a set with a set of a set of requirements set of requirements notably of requirements notably on requirements notably on independence notably on independence competence on independence competence and independence competence and absence competence and absence of and absence of conflicts absence of conflicts of of conflicts of interests.
notification of of those those bodies bodies should should be be sent sent by by national national competent competent authorities authorities to to the the commission commission and and the the other other member member states states by by means means of of the the electronic electronic notification notification tool tool developed developed and and managed managed by by the the commission commission pursuant pursuant to to article article r r of of decision decision .
notification of those of those bodies those bodies should bodies should be should be sent be sent by sent by national by national competent national competent authorities competent authorities to authorities to the to the commission the commission and commission and the and the other the other member other member states member states by states by means by means of means of the of the electronic the electronic notification electronic notification tool notification tool developed tool developed and developed and managed and managed by managed by the by the commission the commission pursuant commission pursuant to pursuant to article to article r article r of r of decision of decision .
notification of those bodies of those bodies should those bodies should be bodies should be sent should be sent by be sent by national sent by national competent by national competent authorities national competent authorities to competent authorities to the authorities to the commission to the commission and the commission and the commission and the other and the other member the other member states other member states by member states by means states by means of by means of the means of the electronic of the electronic notification the electronic notification tool electronic notification tool developed notification tool developed and tool developed and managed developed and managed by and managed by the managed by the commission by the commission pursuant the commission pursuant to commission pursuant to article pursuant to article r to article r of article r of decision r of decision .
in line line with with the the commonly commonly established established notion notion of of substantial substantial modification modification for for products products regulated regulated by by union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation it it is is appropriate appropriate that that whenever whenever a a change change occurs occurs which which may may affect affect the the compliance compliance of of a a high high risk risk ai ai system system with with this this regulation regulation e.g.
in line with line with the with the commonly the commonly established commonly established notion established notion of notion of substantial of substantial modification substantial modification for modification for products for products regulated products regulated by regulated by union by union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation it legislation it is it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that whenever that whenever a whenever a change a change occurs change occurs which occurs which may which may affect may affect the affect the compliance the compliance of compliance of a of a high a high risk high risk ai risk ai system ai system with system with this with this regulation this regulation e.g.
in line with the line with the commonly with the commonly established the commonly established notion commonly established notion of established notion of substantial notion of substantial modification of substantial modification for substantial modification for products modification for products regulated for products regulated by products regulated by union regulated by union harmonisation by union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation it harmonisation legislation it is legislation it is appropriate it is appropriate that is appropriate that whenever appropriate that whenever a that whenever a change whenever a change occurs a change occurs which change occurs which may occurs which may affect which may affect the may affect the compliance affect the compliance of the compliance of a compliance of a high of a high risk a high risk ai high risk ai system risk ai system with ai system with this system with this regulation with this regulation e.g.
change of of operating operating system system or or software software architecture architecture or or when when the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the system system changes changes that that ai ai system system should should be be considered considered a a new new ai ai system system which which should should undergo undergo a a new new conformity conformity assessment.
change of operating of operating system operating system or system or software or software architecture software architecture or architecture or when or when the when the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the system the system changes system changes that changes that ai that ai system ai system should system should be should be considered be considered a considered a new a new ai new ai system ai system which system which should which should undergo should undergo a undergo a new a new conformity new conformity assessment.
change of operating system of operating system or operating system or software system or software architecture or software architecture or software architecture or when architecture or when the or when the intended when the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the system of the system changes the system changes that system changes that ai changes that ai system that ai system should ai system should be system should be considered should be considered a be considered a new considered a new ai a new ai system new ai system which ai system which should system which should undergo which should undergo a should undergo a new undergo a new conformity a new conformity assessment.
however changes changes occuring occuring to to the the algorithm algorithm and and the the performance performance of of ai ai systems systems which which continue continue to to ‘learn’ ‘learn’ after after being being placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service i.e.
however changes occuring changes occuring to occuring to the to the algorithm the algorithm and algorithm and the and the performance the performance of performance of ai of ai systems ai systems which systems which continue which continue to continue to ‘learn’ to ‘learn’ after ‘learn’ after being after being placed being placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service i.e.
however changes occuring to changes occuring to the occuring to the algorithm to the algorithm and the algorithm and the algorithm and the performance and the performance of the performance of ai performance of ai systems of ai systems which ai systems which continue systems which continue to which continue to ‘learn’ continue to ‘learn’ after to ‘learn’ after being ‘learn’ after being placed after being placed on being placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service i.e.
automatically adapting adapting how how functions functions are are carried carried out out should should not not constitute constitute a a substantial substantial modification modification provided provided that that those those changes changes have have been been pre-determined pre-determined by by the the provider provider and and assessed assessed at at the the moment moment of of the the conformity conformity assessment.
automatically adapting how adapting how functions how functions are functions are carried are carried out carried out should out should not should not constitute not constitute a constitute a substantial a substantial modification substantial modification provided modification provided that provided that those that those changes those changes have changes have been have been pre-determined been pre-determined by pre-determined by the by the provider the provider and provider and assessed and assessed at assessed at the at the moment the moment of moment of the of the conformity the conformity assessment.
automatically adapting how functions adapting how functions are how functions are carried functions are carried out are carried out should carried out should not out should not constitute should not constitute a not constitute a substantial constitute a substantial modification a substantial modification provided substantial modification provided that modification provided that those provided that those changes that those changes have those changes have been changes have been pre-determined have been pre-determined by been pre-determined by the pre-determined by the provider by the provider and the provider and assessed provider and assessed at and assessed at the assessed at the moment at the moment of the moment of the moment of the conformity of the conformity assessment.
high-risk ai ai systems systems should should bear bear the the ce ce marking marking to to indicate indicate their their conformity conformity with with this this regulation regulation so so that that they they can can move move freely freely within within the the internal internal market.
high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should bear should bear the bear the ce the ce marking ce marking to marking to indicate to indicate their indicate their conformity their conformity with conformity with this with this regulation this regulation so regulation so that so that they that they can they can move can move freely move freely within freely within the within the internal the internal market.
high-risk ai systems should ai systems should bear systems should bear the should bear the ce bear the ce marking the ce marking to ce marking to indicate marking to indicate their to indicate their conformity indicate their conformity with their conformity with this conformity with this regulation with this regulation so this regulation so that regulation so that they so that they can that they can move they can move freely can move freely within move freely within the freely within the internal within the internal market.
member states states should should not not create create unjustified unjustified obstacles obstacles to to the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that comply comply with with the the requirements requirements laid laid down down in in this this regulation regulation and and bear bear the the ce ce marking.
member states should states should not should not create not create unjustified create unjustified obstacles unjustified obstacles to obstacles to the to the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that comply that comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements laid requirements laid down laid down in down in this in this regulation this regulation and regulation and bear and bear the bear the ce the ce marking.
member states should not states should not create should not create unjustified not create unjustified obstacles create unjustified obstacles to unjustified obstacles to the obstacles to the placing to the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of high-risk service of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that comply systems that comply with that comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements laid the requirements laid down requirements laid down in laid down in this down in this regulation in this regulation and this regulation and bear regulation and bear the and bear the ce bear the ce marking.
under certain certain conditions conditions rapid rapid availability availability of of innovative innovative technologies technologies may may be be crucial crucial for for health health and and safety safety of of persons persons and and for for society society as as a a whole.
under certain conditions certain conditions rapid conditions rapid availability rapid availability of availability of innovative of innovative technologies innovative technologies may technologies may be may be crucial be crucial for crucial for health for health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons of persons and persons and for and for society for society as society as a as a whole.
under certain conditions rapid certain conditions rapid availability conditions rapid availability of rapid availability of innovative availability of innovative technologies of innovative technologies may innovative technologies may be technologies may be crucial may be crucial for be crucial for health crucial for health and for health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons safety of persons and of persons and for persons and for society and for society as for society as a society as a whole.
it is is thus thus appropriate appropriate that that under under exceptional exceptional reasons reasons of of public public security security or or protection protection of of life life and and health health of of natural natural persons persons and and the the protection protection of of industrial industrial and and commercial commercial property property member member states states could could authorise authorise the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of ai ai systems systems which which have have not not undergone undergone a a conformity conformity assessment.
it is thus is thus appropriate thus appropriate that appropriate that under that under exceptional under exceptional reasons exceptional reasons of reasons of public of public security public security or security or protection or protection of protection of life of life and life and health and health of health of natural of natural persons natural persons and persons and the and the protection the protection of protection of industrial of industrial and industrial and commercial and commercial property commercial property member property member states member states could states could authorise could authorise the authorise the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of ai of ai systems ai systems which systems which have which have not have not undergone not undergone a undergone a conformity a conformity assessment.
it is thus appropriate is thus appropriate that thus appropriate that under appropriate that under exceptional that under exceptional reasons under exceptional reasons of exceptional reasons of public reasons of public security of public security or public security or protection security or protection of or protection of life protection of life and of life and health life and health of and health of natural health of natural persons of natural persons and natural persons and the persons and the protection and the protection of the protection of industrial protection of industrial and of industrial and commercial industrial and commercial property and commercial property member commercial property member states property member states could member states could authorise states could authorise the could authorise the placing authorise the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of ai service of ai systems of ai systems which ai systems which have systems which have not which have not undergone have not undergone a not undergone a conformity undergone a conformity assessment.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to facilitate facilitate the the work work of of the the commission commission and and the the member member states states in in the the artificial artificial intelligence intelligence field field as as well well as as to to increase increase the the transparency transparency towards towards the the public public providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems other other than than those those related related to to products products falling falling within within the the scope scope of of relevant relevant existing existing union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation should should be be required required to to register register themselves themselves and and information information about about their their high-risk high-risk ai ai system system in in a a eu eu database database to to be be established established and and managed managed by by the the commission.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the work the work of work of the of the commission the commission and commission and the and the member the member states member states in states in the in the artificial the artificial intelligence artificial intelligence field intelligence field as field as well as well as well as to as to increase to increase the increase the transparency the transparency towards transparency towards the towards the public the public providers public providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems other systems other than other than those than those related those related to related to products to products falling products falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of relevant of relevant existing relevant existing union existing union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation should legislation should be should be required be required to required to register to register themselves register themselves and themselves and information and information about information about their about their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system in system in a in a eu a eu database eu database to database to be to be established be established and established and managed and managed by managed by the by the commission.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to facilitate order to facilitate the to facilitate the work facilitate the work of the work of the work of the commission of the commission and the commission and the commission and the member and the member states the member states in member states in the states in the artificial in the artificial intelligence the artificial intelligence field artificial intelligence field as intelligence field as well field as well as as well as to well as to increase as to increase the to increase the transparency increase the transparency towards the transparency towards the transparency towards the public towards the public providers the public providers of public providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems other ai systems other than systems other than those other than those related than those related to those related to products related to products falling to products falling within products falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of relevant scope of relevant existing of relevant existing union relevant existing union harmonisation existing union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation should harmonisation legislation should be legislation should be required should be required to be required to register required to register themselves to register themselves and register themselves and information themselves and information about and information about their information about their high-risk about their high-risk ai their high-risk ai system high-risk ai system in ai system in a system in a eu in a eu database a eu database to eu database to be database to be established to be established and be established and managed established and managed by and managed by the managed by the commission.
before using using a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system listed listed in in annex annex iii iii users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are public public authorities authorities agencies agencies or or bodies bodies with with the the exception exception of of law law enforcement enforcement border border control control immigration immigration or or asylum asylum authorities authorities and and authorities authorities that that are are users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems in in the the area area of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure shall shall also also register register themselves themselves in in such such database database and and select select the the system system that that they they envisage envisage to to use.
before using a using a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system listed system listed in listed in annex in annex iii annex iii users iii users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are public are public authorities public authorities agencies authorities agencies or agencies or bodies or bodies with bodies with the with the exception the exception of exception of law of law enforcement law enforcement border enforcement border control border control immigration control immigration or immigration or asylum or asylum authorities asylum authorities and authorities and authorities and authorities that authorities that are that are users are users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the area the area of area of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure shall infrastructure shall also shall also register also register themselves register themselves in themselves in such in such database such database and database and select and select the select the system the system that system that they that they envisage they envisage to envisage to use.
before using a high-risk using a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system listed ai system listed in system listed in annex listed in annex iii in annex iii users annex iii users of iii users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are public that are public authorities are public authorities agencies public authorities agencies or authorities agencies or bodies agencies or bodies with or bodies with the bodies with the exception with the exception of the exception of law exception of law enforcement of law enforcement border law enforcement border control enforcement border control immigration border control immigration or control immigration or asylum immigration or asylum authorities or asylum authorities and asylum authorities and authorities authorities and authorities that and authorities that are authorities that are users that are users of are users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the area in the area of the area of critical area of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure shall critical infrastructure shall also infrastructure shall also register shall also register themselves also register themselves in register themselves in such themselves in such database in such database and such database and select database and select the and select the system select the system that the system that they system that they envisage that they envisage to they envisage to use.
the commission commission should should be be the the controller controller of of that that database database in in accordance accordance with with regulation regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council.
the commission should commission should be should be the be the controller the controller of controller of that of that database that database in database in accordance in accordance with accordance with regulation with regulation eu regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council.
the commission should be commission should be the should be the controller be the controller of the controller of that controller of that database of that database in that database in accordance database in accordance with in accordance with regulation accordance with regulation eu with regulation eu of regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council.
in order order to to ensure ensure the the full full functionality functionality of of the the database database when when deployed deployed the the procedure procedure for for setting setting the the database database should should include include the the elaboration elaboration of of functional functional specifications specifications by by the the commission commission and and an an independent independent audit audit report.
in order to order to ensure to ensure the ensure the full the full functionality full functionality of functionality of the of the database the database when database when deployed when deployed the deployed the procedure the procedure for procedure for setting for setting the setting the database the database should database should include should include the include the elaboration the elaboration of elaboration of functional of functional specifications functional specifications by specifications by the by the commission the commission and commission and an and an independent an independent audit independent audit report.
in order to ensure order to ensure the to ensure the full ensure the full functionality the full functionality of full functionality of the functionality of the database of the database when the database when deployed database when deployed the when deployed the procedure deployed the procedure for the procedure for setting procedure for setting the for setting the database setting the database should the database should include database should include the should include the elaboration include the elaboration of the elaboration of functional elaboration of functional specifications of functional specifications by functional specifications by the specifications by the commission by the commission and the commission and an commission and an independent and an independent audit an independent audit report.
regulation eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of april april on on the the protection protection of of natural natural persons persons with with regard regard to to the the processing processing of of personal personal data data and and on on the the free free movement movement of of such such data data and and repealing repealing directive directive ec ec general general data data protection protection regulation regulation oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
regulation eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of april of april on april on the on the protection the protection of protection of natural of natural persons natural persons with persons with regard with regard to regard to the to the processing the processing of processing of personal of personal data personal data and data and on and on the on the free the free movement free movement of movement of such of such data such data and data and repealing and repealing directive repealing directive ec directive ec general ec general data general data protection data protection regulation protection regulation oj regulation oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
regulation eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of april council of april on of april on the april on the protection on the protection of the protection of natural protection of natural persons of natural persons with natural persons with regard persons with regard to with regard to the regard to the processing to the processing of the processing of personal processing of personal data of personal data and personal data and on data and on the and on the free on the free movement the free movement of free movement of such movement of such data of such data and such data and repealing data and repealing directive and repealing directive ec repealing directive ec general directive ec general data ec general data protection general data protection regulation data protection regulation oj protection regulation oj l regulation oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en certain certain ai ai systems systems intended intended to to interact interact with with natural natural persons persons or or to to generate generate content content may may pose pose specific specific risks risks of of impersonation impersonation or or deception deception irrespective irrespective of of whether whether they they qualify qualify as as high-risk high-risk or or not.
tree..b rbek en rbek en certain en certain ai certain ai systems ai systems intended systems intended to intended to interact to interact with interact with natural with natural persons natural persons or persons or to or to generate to generate content generate content may content may pose may pose specific pose specific risks specific risks of risks of impersonation of impersonation or impersonation or deception or deception irrespective deception irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether they whether they qualify they qualify as qualify as high-risk as high-risk or high-risk or not.
tree..b rbek en certain rbek en certain ai en certain ai systems certain ai systems intended ai systems intended to systems intended to interact intended to interact with to interact with natural interact with natural persons with natural persons or natural persons or to persons or to generate or to generate content to generate content may generate content may pose content may pose specific may pose specific risks pose specific risks of specific risks of impersonation risks of impersonation or of impersonation or deception impersonation or deception irrespective or deception irrespective of deception irrespective of whether irrespective of whether they of whether they qualify whether they qualify as they qualify as high-risk qualify as high-risk or as high-risk or not.
in certain certain circumstances circumstances the the use use of of these these systems systems should should therefore therefore be be subject subject to to specific specific transparency transparency obligations obligations without without prejudice prejudice to to the the requirements requirements and and obligations obligations for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
in certain circumstances certain circumstances the circumstances the use the use of use of these of these systems these systems should systems should therefore should therefore be therefore be subject be subject to subject to specific to specific transparency specific transparency obligations transparency obligations without obligations without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the requirements the requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations for obligations for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
in certain circumstances the certain circumstances the use circumstances the use of the use of these use of these systems of these systems should these systems should therefore systems should therefore be should therefore be subject therefore be subject to be subject to specific subject to specific transparency to specific transparency obligations specific transparency obligations without transparency obligations without prejudice obligations without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the requirements to the requirements and the requirements and obligations requirements and obligations for and obligations for high-risk obligations for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems.
in particular particular natural natural persons persons should should be be notified notified that that they they are are interacting interacting with with an an ai ai system system unless unless this this is is obvious obvious from from the the point point of of view view of of a a natural natural person person who who is is reasonably reasonably well-informed well-informed observant observant and and circumspect circumspect taking taking into into account account the the circumstances circumstances and and the the context context of of use.
in particular natural particular natural persons natural persons should persons should be should be notified be notified that notified that they that they are they are interacting are interacting with interacting with an with an ai an ai system ai system unless system unless this unless this is this is obvious is obvious from obvious from the from the point the point of point of view of view of view of a of a natural a natural person natural person who person who is who is reasonably is reasonably well-informed reasonably well-informed observant well-informed observant and observant and circumspect and circumspect taking circumspect taking into taking into account into account the account the circumstances the circumstances and circumstances and the and the context the context of context of use.
in particular natural persons particular natural persons should natural persons should be persons should be notified should be notified that be notified that they notified that they are that they are interacting they are interacting with are interacting with an interacting with an ai with an ai system an ai system unless ai system unless this system unless this is unless this is obvious this is obvious from is obvious from the obvious from the point from the point of the point of view point of view of of view of a view of a natural of a natural person a natural person who natural person who is person who is reasonably who is reasonably well-informed is reasonably well-informed observant reasonably well-informed observant and well-informed observant and circumspect observant and circumspect taking and circumspect taking into circumspect taking into account taking into account the into account the circumstances account the circumstances and the circumstances and the circumstances and the context and the context of the context of use.
when implementing implementing such such obligation obligation the the characteristics characteristics of of individuals individuals belonging belonging to to vulnerable vulnerable groups groups due due to to their their age age or or disability disability should should be be taken taken into into account account to to the the extent extent the the ai ai system system is is intended intended to to interact interact with with those those groups groups as as well.
when implementing such implementing such obligation such obligation the obligation the characteristics the characteristics of characteristics of individuals of individuals belonging individuals belonging to belonging to vulnerable to vulnerable groups vulnerable groups due groups due to due to their to their age their age or age or disability or disability should disability should be should be taken be taken into taken into account into account to account to the to the extent the extent the extent the ai the ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to interact to interact with interact with those with those groups those groups as groups as well.
when implementing such obligation implementing such obligation the such obligation the characteristics obligation the characteristics of the characteristics of individuals characteristics of individuals belonging of individuals belonging to individuals belonging to vulnerable belonging to vulnerable groups to vulnerable groups due vulnerable groups due to groups due to their due to their age to their age or their age or disability age or disability should or disability should be disability should be taken should be taken into be taken into account taken into account to into account to the account to the extent to the extent the the extent the ai extent the ai system the ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to interact intended to interact with to interact with those interact with those groups with those groups as those groups as well.
moreover natural natural persons persons should should be be notified notified when when they they are are exposed exposed to to systems systems that that by by processing processing their their biometric biometric data data can can identify identify or or infer infer the the emotions emotions or or intentions intentions of of those those persons persons or or assign assign them them to to specific specific categories.
moreover natural persons natural persons should persons should be should be notified be notified when notified when they when they are they are exposed are exposed to exposed to systems to systems that systems that by that by processing by processing their processing their biometric their biometric data biometric data can data can identify can identify or identify or infer or infer the infer the emotions the emotions or emotions or intentions or intentions of intentions of those of those persons those persons or persons or assign or assign them assign them to them to specific to specific categories.
moreover natural persons should natural persons should be persons should be notified should be notified when be notified when they notified when they are when they are exposed they are exposed to are exposed to systems exposed to systems that to systems that by systems that by processing that by processing their by processing their biometric processing their biometric data their biometric data can biometric data can identify data can identify or can identify or infer identify or infer the or infer the emotions infer the emotions or the emotions or intentions emotions or intentions of or intentions of those intentions of those persons of those persons or those persons or assign persons or assign them or assign them to assign them to specific them to specific categories.
such specific specific categories categories can can relate relate to to aspects aspects such such as as sex sex age age hair hair colour colour eye eye colour colour tatoos tatoos personal personal traits traits ethnic ethnic origin origin personal personal preferences preferences and and interests interests or or to to other other aspects aspects such such as as sexual sexual or or political political orientation.
such specific categories specific categories can categories can relate can relate to relate to aspects to aspects such aspects such as such as sex as sex age sex age hair age hair colour hair colour eye colour eye colour eye colour tatoos colour tatoos personal tatoos personal traits personal traits ethnic traits ethnic origin ethnic origin personal origin personal preferences personal preferences and preferences and interests and interests or interests or to or to other to other aspects other aspects such aspects such as such as sexual as sexual or sexual or political or political orientation.
such specific categories can specific categories can relate categories can relate to can relate to aspects relate to aspects such to aspects such as aspects such as sex such as sex age as sex age hair sex age hair colour age hair colour eye hair colour eye colour colour eye colour tatoos eye colour tatoos personal colour tatoos personal traits tatoos personal traits ethnic personal traits ethnic origin traits ethnic origin personal ethnic origin personal preferences origin personal preferences and personal preferences and interests preferences and interests or and interests or to interests or to other or to other aspects to other aspects such other aspects such as aspects such as sexual such as sexual or as sexual or political sexual or political orientation.
such information information and and notifications notifications should should be be provided provided in in accessible accessible formats formats for for persons persons with with disabilities.
such information and information and notifications and notifications should notifications should be should be provided be provided in provided in accessible in accessible formats accessible formats for formats for persons for persons with persons with disabilities.
such information and notifications information and notifications should and notifications should be notifications should be provided should be provided in be provided in accessible provided in accessible formats in accessible formats for accessible formats for persons formats for persons with for persons with disabilities.
further users users who who use use an an ai ai system system to to generate generate or or manipulate manipulate image image audio audio or or video video content content that that appreciably appreciably resembles resembles existing existing persons persons places places or or events events and and would would falsely falsely appear appear to to a a person person to to be be authentic authentic should should disclose disclose that that the the content content has has been been artificially artificially created created or or manipulated manipulated by by labelling labelling the the artificial artificial intelligence intelligence output output accordingly accordingly and and disclosing disclosing its its artificial artificial origin.
further users who users who use who use an use an ai an ai system ai system to system to generate to generate or generate or manipulate or manipulate image manipulate image audio image audio or audio or video or video content video content that content that appreciably that appreciably resembles appreciably resembles existing resembles existing persons existing persons places persons places or places or events or events and events and would and would falsely would falsely appear falsely appear to appear to a to a person a person to person to be to be authentic be authentic should authentic should disclose should disclose that disclose that the that the content the content has content has been has been artificially been artificially created artificially created or created or manipulated or manipulated by manipulated by labelling by labelling the labelling the artificial the artificial intelligence artificial intelligence output intelligence output accordingly output accordingly and accordingly and disclosing and disclosing its disclosing its artificial its artificial origin.
further users who use users who use an who use an ai use an ai system an ai system to ai system to generate system to generate or to generate or manipulate generate or manipulate image or manipulate image audio manipulate image audio or image audio or video audio or video content or video content that video content that appreciably content that appreciably resembles that appreciably resembles existing appreciably resembles existing persons resembles existing persons places existing persons places or persons places or events places or events and or events and would events and would falsely and would falsely appear would falsely appear to falsely appear to a appear to a person to a person to a person to be person to be authentic to be authentic should be authentic should disclose authentic should disclose that should disclose that the disclose that the content that the content has the content has been content has been artificially has been artificially created been artificially created or artificially created or manipulated created or manipulated by or manipulated by labelling manipulated by labelling the by labelling the artificial labelling the artificial intelligence the artificial intelligence output artificial intelligence output accordingly intelligence output accordingly and output accordingly and disclosing accordingly and disclosing its and disclosing its artificial disclosing its artificial origin.
the compliance compliance with with the the information information obligations obligations referred referred to to above above should should not not be be interpreted interpreted as as indicating indicating that that the the use use of of the the system system or or its its output output is is lawful lawful under under this this regulation regulation or or other other union union and and member member state state law law and and should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to other other transparency transparency obligations obligations for for users users of of ai ai systems systems laid laid down down in in union union or or national national law.
the compliance with compliance with the with the information the information obligations information obligations referred obligations referred to referred to above to above should above should not should not be not be interpreted be interpreted as interpreted as indicating as indicating that indicating that the that the use the use of use of the of the system the system or system or its or its output its output is output is lawful is lawful under lawful under this under this regulation this regulation or regulation or other or other union other union and union and member and member state member state law state law and law and should and should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to other to other transparency other transparency obligations transparency obligations for obligations for users for users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems laid systems laid down laid down in down in union in union or union or national or national law.
the compliance with the compliance with the information with the information obligations the information obligations referred information obligations referred to obligations referred to above referred to above should to above should not above should not be should not be interpreted not be interpreted as be interpreted as indicating interpreted as indicating that as indicating that the indicating that the use that the use of the use of the use of the system of the system or the system or its system or its output or its output is its output is lawful output is lawful under is lawful under this lawful under this regulation under this regulation or this regulation or other regulation or other union or other union and other union and member union and member state and member state law member state law and state law and should law and should be and should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to other prejudice to other transparency to other transparency obligations other transparency obligations for transparency obligations for users obligations for users of for users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems laid ai systems laid down systems laid down in laid down in union down in union or in union or national union or national law.
furthermore it it should should also also not not be be interpreted interpreted as as indicating indicating that that the the use use of of the the system system or or its its output output impedes impedes the the right right to to freedom freedom of of expression expression and and the the right right to to freedom freedom of of the the arts arts and and sciences sciences guaranteed guaranteed in in the the charter charter of of funadamental funadamental rights rights of of the the eu eu in in particular particular where where the the content content is is part part of of an an evidently evidently creative creative satirical satirical artistic artistic or or fictional fictional work work or or programme programme subject subject to to appropriate appropriate safeguards safeguards for for the the rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of third third parties.
furthermore it should it should also should also not also not be not be interpreted be interpreted as interpreted as indicating as indicating that indicating that the that the use the use of use of the of the system the system or system or its or its output its output impedes output impedes the impedes the right the right to right to freedom to freedom of freedom of expression of expression and expression and the and the right the right to right to freedom to freedom of freedom of the of the arts the arts and arts and sciences and sciences guaranteed sciences guaranteed in guaranteed in the in the charter the charter of charter of funadamental of funadamental rights funadamental rights of rights of the of the eu the eu in eu in particular in particular where particular where the where the content the content is content is part is part of part of an of an evidently an evidently creative evidently creative satirical creative satirical artistic satirical artistic or artistic or fictional or fictional work fictional work or work or programme or programme subject programme subject to subject to appropriate to appropriate safeguards appropriate safeguards for safeguards for the for the rights the rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of third of third parties.
furthermore it should also it should also not should also not be also not be interpreted not be interpreted as be interpreted as indicating interpreted as indicating that as indicating that the indicating that the use that the use of the use of the use of the system of the system or the system or its system or its output or its output impedes its output impedes the output impedes the right impedes the right to the right to freedom right to freedom of to freedom of expression freedom of expression and of expression and the expression and the right and the right to the right to freedom right to freedom of to freedom of the freedom of the arts of the arts and the arts and sciences arts and sciences guaranteed and sciences guaranteed in sciences guaranteed in the guaranteed in the charter in the charter of the charter of funadamental charter of funadamental rights of funadamental rights of funadamental rights of the rights of the eu of the eu in the eu in particular eu in particular where in particular where the particular where the content where the content is the content is part content is part of is part of an part of an evidently of an evidently creative an evidently creative satirical evidently creative satirical artistic creative satirical artistic or satirical artistic or fictional artistic or fictional work or fictional work or fictional work or programme work or programme subject or programme subject to programme subject to appropriate subject to appropriate safeguards to appropriate safeguards for appropriate safeguards for the safeguards for the rights for the rights and the rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of third freedoms of third parties.
tree..b rbek rbek en en artificial artificial intelligence intelligence is is a a rapidly rapidly developing developing family family of of technologies technologies that that requires requires novel novel forms forms of of regulatory regulatory oversight oversight and and a a safe safe space space for for experimentation experimentation while while ensuring ensuring responsible responsible innovation innovation and and integration integration of of appropriate appropriate safeguards safeguards and and risk risk mitigation mitigation measures.
tree..b rbek en rbek en artificial en artificial intelligence artificial intelligence is intelligence is a is a rapidly a rapidly developing rapidly developing family developing family of family of technologies of technologies that technologies that requires that requires novel requires novel forms novel forms of forms of regulatory of regulatory oversight regulatory oversight and oversight and a and a safe a safe space safe space for space for experimentation for experimentation while experimentation while ensuring while ensuring responsible ensuring responsible innovation responsible innovation and innovation and integration and integration of integration of appropriate of appropriate safeguards appropriate safeguards and safeguards and risk and risk mitigation risk mitigation measures.
tree..b rbek en artificial rbek en artificial intelligence en artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence is a intelligence is a rapidly is a rapidly developing a rapidly developing family rapidly developing family of developing family of technologies family of technologies that of technologies that requires technologies that requires novel that requires novel forms requires novel forms of novel forms of regulatory forms of regulatory oversight of regulatory oversight and regulatory oversight and a oversight and a safe and a safe space a safe space for safe space for experimentation space for experimentation while for experimentation while ensuring experimentation while ensuring responsible while ensuring responsible innovation ensuring responsible innovation and responsible innovation and integration innovation and integration of and integration of appropriate integration of appropriate safeguards of appropriate safeguards and appropriate safeguards and risk safeguards and risk mitigation and risk mitigation measures.
to ensure ensure a a legal legal framework framework that that is is innovation-friendly innovation-friendly future-proof future-proof and and resilient resilient to to disruption disruption national national competent competent authorities authorities from from one one or or more more member member states states should should be be encouraged encouraged to to establish establish artificial artificial intelligence intelligence regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes to to facilitate facilitate the the development development and and testing testing of of innovative innovative ai ai systems systems under under strict strict regulatory regulatory oversight oversight before before these these systems systems are are placed placed on on the the market market or or otherwise otherwise put put into into service.
to ensure a ensure a legal a legal framework legal framework that framework that is that is innovation-friendly is innovation-friendly future-proof innovation-friendly future-proof and future-proof and resilient and resilient to resilient to disruption to disruption national disruption national competent national competent authorities competent authorities from authorities from one from one or one or more or more member more member states member states should states should be should be encouraged be encouraged to encouraged to establish to establish artificial establish artificial intelligence artificial intelligence regulatory intelligence regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes to sandboxes to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the development the development and development and testing and testing of testing of innovative of innovative ai innovative ai systems ai systems under systems under strict under strict regulatory strict regulatory oversight regulatory oversight before oversight before these before these systems these systems are systems are placed are placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or otherwise or otherwise put otherwise put into put into service.
to ensure a legal ensure a legal framework a legal framework that legal framework that is framework that is innovation-friendly that is innovation-friendly future-proof is innovation-friendly future-proof and innovation-friendly future-proof and resilient future-proof and resilient to and resilient to disruption resilient to disruption national to disruption national competent disruption national competent authorities national competent authorities from competent authorities from one authorities from one or from one or more one or more member or more member states more member states should member states should be states should be encouraged should be encouraged to be encouraged to establish encouraged to establish artificial to establish artificial intelligence establish artificial intelligence regulatory artificial intelligence regulatory sandboxes intelligence regulatory sandboxes to regulatory sandboxes to facilitate sandboxes to facilitate the to facilitate the development facilitate the development and the development and testing development and testing of and testing of innovative testing of innovative ai of innovative ai systems innovative ai systems under ai systems under strict systems under strict regulatory under strict regulatory oversight strict regulatory oversight before regulatory oversight before these oversight before these systems before these systems are these systems are placed systems are placed on are placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or otherwise market or otherwise put or otherwise put into otherwise put into service.
tree..b rbek rbek en en the the objectives objectives of of the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes should should be be to to foster foster ai ai innovation innovation by by establishing establishing a a controlled controlled experimentation experimentation and and testing testing environment environment in in the the development development and and pre-marketing pre-marketing phase phase with with a a view view to to ensuring ensuring compliance compliance of of the the innovative innovative ai ai systems systems with with this this regulation regulation and and other other relevant relevant union union and and member member states states legislation legislation to to enhance enhance legal legal certainty certainty for for innovators innovators and and the the competent competent authorities’ authorities’ oversight oversight and and understanding understanding of of the the opportunities opportunities emerging emerging risks risks and and the the impacts impacts of of ai ai use use and and to to accelerate accelerate access access to to markets markets including including by by removing removing barriers barriers for for small small and and medium medium enterprises enterprises smes smes including including start-ups.
tree..b rbek en rbek en the en the objectives the objectives of objectives of the of the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes should sandboxes should be should be to be to foster to foster ai foster ai innovation ai innovation by innovation by establishing by establishing a establishing a controlled a controlled experimentation controlled experimentation and experimentation and testing and testing environment testing environment in environment in the in the development the development and development and pre-marketing and pre-marketing phase pre-marketing phase with phase with a with a view a view to view to ensuring to ensuring compliance ensuring compliance of compliance of the of the innovative the innovative ai innovative ai systems ai systems with systems with this with this regulation this regulation and regulation and other and other relevant other relevant union relevant union and union and member and member states member states legislation states legislation to legislation to enhance to enhance legal enhance legal certainty legal certainty for certainty for innovators for innovators and innovators and the and the competent the competent authorities’ competent authorities’ oversight authorities’ oversight and oversight and understanding and understanding of understanding of the of the opportunities the opportunities emerging opportunities emerging risks emerging risks and risks and the and the impacts the impacts of impacts of ai of ai use ai use and use and to and to accelerate to accelerate access accelerate access to access to markets to markets including markets including by including by removing by removing barriers removing barriers for barriers for small for small and small and medium and medium enterprises medium enterprises smes enterprises smes including smes including start-ups.
tree..b rbek en the rbek en the objectives en the objectives of the objectives of the objectives of the ai of the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandboxes ai regulatory sandboxes should regulatory sandboxes should be sandboxes should be to should be to foster be to foster ai to foster ai innovation foster ai innovation by ai innovation by establishing innovation by establishing a by establishing a controlled establishing a controlled experimentation a controlled experimentation and controlled experimentation and testing experimentation and testing environment and testing environment in testing environment in the environment in the development in the development and the development and pre-marketing development and pre-marketing phase and pre-marketing phase with pre-marketing phase with a phase with a view with a view to a view to ensuring view to ensuring compliance to ensuring compliance of ensuring compliance of the compliance of the innovative of the innovative ai the innovative ai systems innovative ai systems with ai systems with this systems with this regulation with this regulation and this regulation and other regulation and other relevant and other relevant union other relevant union and relevant union and member union and member states and member states legislation member states legislation to states legislation to enhance legislation to enhance legal to enhance legal certainty enhance legal certainty for legal certainty for innovators certainty for innovators and for innovators and the innovators and the competent and the competent authorities’ the competent authorities’ oversight competent authorities’ oversight and authorities’ oversight and understanding oversight and understanding of and understanding of the understanding of the opportunities of the opportunities emerging the opportunities emerging risks opportunities emerging risks and emerging risks and the risks and the impacts and the impacts of the impacts of ai impacts of ai use of ai use and ai use and to use and to accelerate and to accelerate access to accelerate access to accelerate access to markets access to markets including to markets including by markets including by removing including by removing barriers by removing barriers for removing barriers for small barriers for small and for small and medium small and medium enterprises and medium enterprises smes medium enterprises smes including enterprises smes including start-ups.
the participation participation in in the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox sandbox should should focus focus on on issues issues that that raise raise legal legal uncertainty uncertainty for for providers providers and and prospective prospective providers providers to to innovate innovate experiment experiment with with ai ai in in the the union union and and contribute contribute to to evidence-based evidence-based regulatory regulatory learning.
the participation in participation in the in the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox regulatory sandbox should sandbox should focus should focus on focus on issues on issues that issues that raise that raise legal raise legal uncertainty legal uncertainty for uncertainty for providers for providers and providers and prospective and prospective providers prospective providers to providers to innovate to innovate experiment innovate experiment with experiment with ai with ai in ai in the in the union the union and union and contribute and contribute to contribute to evidence-based to evidence-based regulatory evidence-based regulatory learning.
the participation in the participation in the ai in the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox ai regulatory sandbox should regulatory sandbox should focus sandbox should focus on should focus on issues focus on issues that on issues that raise issues that raise legal that raise legal uncertainty raise legal uncertainty for legal uncertainty for providers uncertainty for providers and for providers and prospective providers and prospective providers and prospective providers to prospective providers to innovate providers to innovate experiment to innovate experiment with innovate experiment with ai experiment with ai in with ai in the ai in the union in the union and the union and contribute union and contribute to and contribute to evidence-based contribute to evidence-based regulatory to evidence-based regulatory learning.
the supervision supervision of of the the ai ai systems systems in in the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox sandbox should should therefore therefore cover cover their their development development training training testing testing and and validation validation before before the the systems systems are are placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service as as well well as as the the notion notion and and occurrence occurrence of of substantial substantial modification modification that that may may require require a a new new conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure.
the supervision of supervision of the of the ai the ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox regulatory sandbox should sandbox should therefore should therefore cover therefore cover their cover their development their development training development training testing training testing and testing and validation and validation before validation before the before the systems the systems are systems are placed are placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service as service as well as well as well as the as the notion the notion and notion and occurrence and occurrence of occurrence of substantial of substantial modification substantial modification that modification that may that may require may require a require a new a new conformity new conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure.
the supervision of the supervision of the ai of the ai systems the ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the ai in the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox ai regulatory sandbox should regulatory sandbox should therefore sandbox should therefore cover should therefore cover their therefore cover their development cover their development training their development training testing development training testing and training testing and validation testing and validation before and validation before the validation before the systems before the systems are the systems are placed systems are placed on are placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service as into service as well service as well as as well as the well as the notion as the notion and the notion and occurrence notion and occurrence of and occurrence of substantial occurrence of substantial modification of substantial modification that substantial modification that may modification that may require that may require a may require a new require a new conformity a new conformity assessment new conformity assessment procedure.
where appropriate appropriate national national competent competent authorities authorities establishing establishing ai ai regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes should should cooperate cooperate with with other other relevant relevant authorities authorities including including those those supervising supervising the the protection protection of of fundamental fundamental rights rights and and could could allow allow for for the the involvement involvement of of other other actors actors within within the the ai ai ecosystem ecosystem such such as as national national or or european european standardisation standardisation organisations organisations notified notified bodies bodies testing testing and and experimentation experimentation facilities facilities research research and and experimentation experimentation labs labs innovation innovation hubs hubs and and relevant relevant stakeholder stakeholder and and civil civil society society organisations.
where appropriate national appropriate national competent national competent authorities competent authorities establishing authorities establishing ai establishing ai regulatory ai regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes should sandboxes should cooperate should cooperate with cooperate with other with other relevant other relevant authorities relevant authorities including authorities including those including those supervising those supervising the supervising the protection the protection of protection of fundamental of fundamental rights fundamental rights and rights and could and could allow could allow for allow for the for the involvement the involvement of involvement of other of other actors other actors within actors within the within the ai the ai ecosystem ai ecosystem such ecosystem such as such as national as national or national or european or european standardisation european standardisation organisations standardisation organisations notified organisations notified bodies notified bodies testing bodies testing and testing and experimentation and experimentation facilities experimentation facilities research facilities research and research and experimentation and experimentation labs experimentation labs innovation labs innovation hubs innovation hubs and hubs and relevant and relevant stakeholder relevant stakeholder and stakeholder and civil and civil society civil society organisations.
where appropriate national competent appropriate national competent authorities national competent authorities establishing competent authorities establishing ai authorities establishing ai regulatory establishing ai regulatory sandboxes ai regulatory sandboxes should regulatory sandboxes should cooperate sandboxes should cooperate with should cooperate with other cooperate with other relevant with other relevant authorities other relevant authorities including relevant authorities including those authorities including those supervising including those supervising the those supervising the protection supervising the protection of the protection of fundamental protection of fundamental rights of fundamental rights and fundamental rights and could rights and could allow and could allow for could allow for the allow for the involvement for the involvement of the involvement of other involvement of other actors of other actors within other actors within the actors within the ai within the ai ecosystem the ai ecosystem such ai ecosystem such as ecosystem such as national such as national or as national or european national or european standardisation or european standardisation organisations european standardisation organisations notified standardisation organisations notified bodies organisations notified bodies testing notified bodies testing and bodies testing and experimentation testing and experimentation facilities and experimentation facilities research experimentation facilities research and facilities research and experimentation research and experimentation labs and experimentation labs innovation experimentation labs innovation hubs labs innovation hubs and innovation hubs and relevant hubs and relevant stakeholder and relevant stakeholder and relevant stakeholder and civil stakeholder and civil society and civil society organisations.
to ensure ensure uniform uniform implementation implementation across across the the union union and and economies economies of of scale scale it it is is appropriate appropriate to to establish establish common common rules rules for for the the regulatory regulatory sandboxes’ sandboxes’ implementation implementation and and a a framework framework for for cooperation cooperation between between the the relevant relevant authorities authorities involved involved in in the the supervision supervision of of the the sandboxes.
to ensure uniform ensure uniform implementation uniform implementation across implementation across the across the union the union and union and economies and economies of economies of scale of scale it scale it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to establish to establish common establish common rules common rules for rules for the for the regulatory the regulatory sandboxes’ regulatory sandboxes’ implementation sandboxes’ implementation and implementation and a and a framework a framework for framework for cooperation for cooperation between cooperation between the between the relevant the relevant authorities relevant authorities involved authorities involved in involved in the in the supervision the supervision of supervision of the of the sandboxes.
to ensure uniform implementation ensure uniform implementation across uniform implementation across the implementation across the union across the union and the union and economies union and economies of and economies of scale economies of scale it of scale it is scale it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to establish appropriate to establish common to establish common rules establish common rules for common rules for the rules for the regulatory for the regulatory sandboxes’ the regulatory sandboxes’ implementation regulatory sandboxes’ implementation and sandboxes’ implementation and a implementation and a framework and a framework for a framework for cooperation framework for cooperation between for cooperation between the cooperation between the relevant between the relevant authorities the relevant authorities involved relevant authorities involved in authorities involved in the involved in the supervision in the supervision of the supervision of the supervision of the sandboxes.
ai regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes established established under under this this regulation regulation should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to other other legislation legislation allowing allowing for for the the establishment establishment of of other other sandboxes sandboxes aiming aiming at at ensuring ensuring compliance compliance with with legislation legislation other other that that this this regulation.
ai regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes established sandboxes established under established under this under this regulation this regulation should regulation should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to other to other legislation other legislation allowing legislation allowing for allowing for the for the establishment the establishment of establishment of other of other sandboxes other sandboxes aiming sandboxes aiming at aiming at ensuring at ensuring compliance ensuring compliance with compliance with legislation with legislation other legislation other that other that this that this regulation.
ai regulatory sandboxes established regulatory sandboxes established under sandboxes established under this established under this regulation under this regulation should this regulation should be regulation should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to other prejudice to other legislation to other legislation allowing other legislation allowing for legislation allowing for the allowing for the establishment for the establishment of the establishment of other establishment of other sandboxes of other sandboxes aiming other sandboxes aiming at sandboxes aiming at ensuring aiming at ensuring compliance at ensuring compliance with ensuring compliance with legislation compliance with legislation other with legislation other that legislation other that this other that this regulation.
where appropriate appropriate relevant relevant competent competent authorities authorities in in charge charge of of those those other other regulatory regulatory sandboxes sandboxes should should consider consider the the benefits benefits of of using using those those sandboxes sandboxes also also for for the the purpose purpose of of ensuring ensuring compliance compliance of of ai ai systems systems with with this this regulation.
where appropriate relevant appropriate relevant competent relevant competent authorities competent authorities in authorities in charge in charge of charge of those of those other those other regulatory other regulatory sandboxes regulatory sandboxes should sandboxes should consider should consider the consider the benefits the benefits of benefits of using of using those using those sandboxes those sandboxes also sandboxes also for also for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of ensuring of ensuring compliance ensuring compliance of compliance of ai of ai systems ai systems with systems with this with this regulation.
where appropriate relevant competent appropriate relevant competent authorities relevant competent authorities in competent authorities in charge authorities in charge of in charge of those charge of those other of those other regulatory those other regulatory sandboxes other regulatory sandboxes should regulatory sandboxes should consider sandboxes should consider the should consider the benefits consider the benefits of the benefits of using benefits of using those of using those sandboxes using those sandboxes also those sandboxes also for sandboxes also for the also for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of ensuring purpose of ensuring compliance of ensuring compliance of ensuring compliance of ai compliance of ai systems of ai systems with ai systems with this systems with this regulation.
upon agreement agreement between between the the national national competent competent authorities authorities and and the the participants participants in in the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox sandbox testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions may may also also be be operated operated and and supervised supervised in in the the framework framework of of the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox.
upon agreement between agreement between the between the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities and authorities and the and the participants the participants in participants in the in the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox regulatory sandbox testing sandbox testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions may conditions may also may also be also be operated be operated and operated and supervised and supervised in supervised in the in the framework the framework of framework of the of the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox.
upon agreement between the agreement between the national between the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities and competent authorities and the authorities and the participants and the participants in the participants in the participants in the ai in the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox ai regulatory sandbox testing regulatory sandbox testing in sandbox testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions may world conditions may also conditions may also be may also be operated also be operated and be operated and supervised operated and supervised in and supervised in the supervised in the framework in the framework of the framework of the framework of the ai of the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox.
tree..b rbek rbek en en -a -a this this regulation regulation should should provide provide the the legal legal basis basis for for the the participants participants in in the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox sandbox to to use use personal personal data data collected collected for for other other purposes purposes for for developing developing certain certain ai ai systems systems in in the the public public interest interest within within the the ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox sandbox in in line line with with article article and and g g of of regulation regulation eu eu and and article article and and of of regulation regulation eu eu and and without without prejudice prejudice to to articles articles and and of of directive directive eu eu .
tree..b rbek en rbek en -a en -a this -a this regulation this regulation should regulation should provide should provide the provide the legal the legal basis legal basis for basis for the for the participants the participants in participants in the in the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox regulatory sandbox to sandbox to use to use personal use personal data personal data collected data collected for collected for other for other purposes other purposes for purposes for developing for developing certain developing certain ai certain ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the public the public interest public interest within interest within the within the ai the ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox regulatory sandbox in sandbox in line in line with line with article with article and article and g and g of g of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and article and article and article and of and of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and without and without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to articles to articles and articles and of and of directive of directive eu directive eu .
tree..b rbek en -a rbek en -a this en -a this regulation -a this regulation should this regulation should provide regulation should provide the should provide the legal provide the legal basis the legal basis for legal basis for the basis for the participants for the participants in the participants in the participants in the ai in the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox ai regulatory sandbox to regulatory sandbox to use sandbox to use personal to use personal data use personal data collected personal data collected for data collected for other collected for other purposes for other purposes for other purposes for developing purposes for developing certain for developing certain ai developing certain ai systems certain ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the public in the public interest the public interest within public interest within the interest within the ai within the ai regulatory the ai regulatory sandbox ai regulatory sandbox in regulatory sandbox in line sandbox in line with in line with article line with article and with article and g article and g of and g of regulation g of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and article eu and article and and article and of article and of regulation and of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and without eu and without prejudice and without prejudice to without prejudice to articles prejudice to articles and to articles and of articles and of directive and of directive eu of directive eu .
all other other obligations obligations of of data data controllers controllers and and rights rights of of data data subjects subjects under under regulation regulation eu eu regulation regulation eu eu and and directive directive eu eu remain remain applicable.
all other obligations other obligations of obligations of data of data controllers data controllers and controllers and rights and rights of rights of data of data subjects data subjects under subjects under regulation under regulation eu regulation eu regulation eu regulation eu regulation eu and eu and directive and directive eu directive eu remain eu remain applicable.
all other obligations of other obligations of data obligations of data controllers of data controllers and data controllers and rights controllers and rights of and rights of data rights of data subjects of data subjects under data subjects under regulation subjects under regulation eu under regulation eu regulation regulation eu regulation eu eu regulation eu and regulation eu and directive eu and directive eu and directive eu remain directive eu remain applicable.
in particular particular this this regulation regulation should should not not provide provide a a legal legal basis basis in in the the meaning meaning of of article article b b of of regulation regulation eu eu and and article article b b of of regulation regulation eu eu .
in particular this particular this regulation this regulation should regulation should not should not provide not provide a provide a legal a legal basis legal basis in basis in the in the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article b article b of b of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and article and article b article b of b of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu .
in particular this regulation particular this regulation should this regulation should not regulation should not provide should not provide a not provide a legal provide a legal basis a legal basis in legal basis in the basis in the meaning in the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article b of article b of article b of regulation b of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and article eu and article b and article b of article b of regulation b of regulation eu of regulation eu .
participants in in the the sandbox sandbox should should ensure ensure appropriate appropriate safeguards safeguards and and cooperate cooperate with with the the competent competent authorities authorities including including by by following following their their guidance guidance and and acting acting expeditiously expeditiously and and in in good good faith faith to to mitigate mitigate any any high-risks high-risks to to safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights that that may may arise arise during during the the development development and and experimentation experimentation in in the the sandbox.
participants in the in the sandbox the sandbox should sandbox should ensure should ensure appropriate ensure appropriate safeguards appropriate safeguards and safeguards and cooperate and cooperate with cooperate with the with the competent the competent authorities competent authorities including authorities including by including by following by following their following their guidance their guidance and guidance and acting and acting expeditiously acting expeditiously and expeditiously and in and in good in good faith good faith to faith to mitigate to mitigate any mitigate any high-risks any high-risks to high-risks to safety to safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights that rights that may that may arise may arise during arise during the during the development the development and development and experimentation and experimentation in experimentation in the in the sandbox.
participants in the sandbox in the sandbox should the sandbox should ensure sandbox should ensure appropriate should ensure appropriate safeguards ensure appropriate safeguards and appropriate safeguards and cooperate safeguards and cooperate with and cooperate with the cooperate with the competent with the competent authorities the competent authorities including competent authorities including by authorities including by following including by following their by following their guidance following their guidance and their guidance and acting guidance and acting expeditiously and acting expeditiously and acting expeditiously and in expeditiously and in good and in good faith in good faith to good faith to mitigate faith to mitigate any to mitigate any high-risks mitigate any high-risks to any high-risks to safety high-risks to safety and to safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights that fundamental rights that may rights that may arise that may arise during may arise during the arise during the development during the development and the development and experimentation development and experimentation in and experimentation in the experimentation in the sandbox.
the conduct conduct of of the the participants participants in in the the sandbox sandbox should should be be taken taken into into account account when when competent competent authorities authorities decide decide whether whether to to impose impose an an administrative administrative fine fine under under article article of of regulation regulation and and article article of of directive directive .
the conduct of conduct of the of the participants the participants in participants in the in the sandbox the sandbox should sandbox should be should be taken be taken into taken into account into account when account when competent when competent authorities competent authorities decide authorities decide whether decide whether to whether to impose to impose an impose an administrative an administrative fine administrative fine under fine under article under article of article of regulation of regulation and regulation and article and article of article of directive of directive .
the conduct of the conduct of the participants of the participants in the participants in the participants in the sandbox in the sandbox should the sandbox should be sandbox should be taken should be taken into be taken into account taken into account when into account when competent account when competent authorities when competent authorities decide competent authorities decide whether authorities decide whether to decide whether to impose whether to impose an to impose an administrative impose an administrative fine an administrative fine under administrative fine under article fine under article of under article of regulation article of regulation and of regulation and article regulation and article of and article of directive article of directive .
a in in order order to to accelerate accelerate the the process process of of development development and and placing placing on on the the market market of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems listed listed in in annex annex iii iii it it is is important important that that providers providers or or prospective prospective providers providers of of such such systems systems may may also also benefit benefit from from a a specific specific regime regime for for testing testing those those systems systems in in real real world world conditions conditions without without participating participating in in an an ai ai regulatory regulatory sandbox.
a in order in order to order to accelerate to accelerate the accelerate the process the process of process of development of development and development and placing and placing on placing on the on the market the market of market of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems listed systems listed in listed in annex in annex iii annex iii it iii it is it is important is important that important that providers that providers or providers or prospective or prospective providers prospective providers of providers of such of such systems such systems may systems may also may also benefit also benefit from benefit from a from a specific a specific regime specific regime for regime for testing for testing those testing those systems those systems in systems in real in real world real world conditions world conditions without conditions without participating without participating in participating in an in an ai an ai regulatory ai regulatory sandbox.
a in order to in order to accelerate order to accelerate the to accelerate the process accelerate the process of the process of development process of development and of development and placing development and placing on and placing on the placing on the market on the market of the market of high-risk market of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems listed ai systems listed in systems listed in annex listed in annex iii in annex iii it annex iii it is iii it is important it is important that is important that providers important that providers or that providers or prospective providers or prospective providers or prospective providers of prospective providers of such providers of such systems of such systems may such systems may also systems may also benefit may also benefit from also benefit from a benefit from a specific from a specific regime a specific regime for specific regime for testing regime for testing those for testing those systems testing those systems in those systems in real systems in real world in real world conditions real world conditions without world conditions without participating conditions without participating in without participating in an participating in an ai in an ai regulatory an ai regulatory sandbox.
however in in such such cases cases and and taking taking into into account account the the possible possible consequences consequences of of such such testing testing on on individuals individuals it it should should be be ensured ensured that that appropriate appropriate and and sufficient sufficient guarantees guarantees and and conditions conditions are are introduced introduced by by the the regulation regulation for for providers providers or or prospective prospective providers.
however in such in such cases such cases and cases and taking and taking into taking into account into account the account the possible the possible consequences possible consequences of consequences of such of such testing such testing on testing on individuals on individuals it individuals it should it should be should be ensured be ensured that ensured that appropriate that appropriate and appropriate and sufficient and sufficient guarantees sufficient guarantees and guarantees and conditions and conditions are conditions are introduced are introduced by introduced by the by the regulation the regulation for regulation for providers for providers or providers or prospective or prospective providers.
however in such cases in such cases and such cases and taking cases and taking into and taking into account taking into account the into account the possible account the possible consequences the possible consequences of possible consequences of such consequences of such testing of such testing on such testing on individuals testing on individuals it on individuals it should individuals it should be it should be ensured should be ensured that be ensured that appropriate ensured that appropriate and that appropriate and sufficient appropriate and sufficient guarantees and sufficient guarantees and sufficient guarantees and conditions guarantees and conditions are and conditions are introduced conditions are introduced by are introduced by the introduced by the regulation by the regulation for the regulation for providers regulation for providers or for providers or prospective providers or prospective providers.
such guarantees guarantees should should include include among among others others requesting requesting informed informed consent consent of of natural natural persons persons to to participate participate in in testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions with with the the exception exception of of law law enforcement enforcement in in cases cases where where the the seeking seeking of of informed informed consent consent would would prevent prevent the the ai ai system system from from being being tested.
such guarantees should guarantees should include should include among include among others among others requesting others requesting informed requesting informed consent informed consent of consent of natural of natural persons natural persons to persons to participate to participate in participate in testing in testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions with conditions with the with the exception the exception of exception of law of law enforcement law enforcement in enforcement in cases in cases where cases where the where the seeking the seeking of seeking of informed of informed consent informed consent would consent would prevent would prevent the prevent the ai the ai system ai system from system from being from being tested.
such guarantees should include guarantees should include among should include among others include among others requesting among others requesting informed others requesting informed consent requesting informed consent of informed consent of natural consent of natural persons of natural persons to natural persons to participate persons to participate in to participate in testing participate in testing in in testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions with world conditions with the conditions with the exception with the exception of the exception of law exception of law enforcement of law enforcement in law enforcement in cases enforcement in cases where in cases where the cases where the seeking where the seeking of the seeking of informed seeking of informed consent of informed consent would informed consent would prevent consent would prevent the would prevent the ai prevent the ai system the ai system from ai system from being system from being tested.
consent of of subjects subjects to to participate participate in in such such testing testing under under this this regulation regulation is is distinct distinct from from and and without without prejudice prejudice to to consent consent of of data data subjects subjects for for the the processing processing of of their their personal personal data data under under the the relevant relevant data data protection protection law.
consent of subjects of subjects to subjects to participate to participate in participate in such in such testing such testing under testing under this under this regulation this regulation is regulation is distinct is distinct from distinct from and from and without and without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to consent to consent of consent of data of data subjects data subjects for subjects for the for the processing the processing of processing of their of their personal their personal data personal data under data under the under the relevant the relevant data relevant data protection data protection law.
consent of subjects to of subjects to participate subjects to participate in to participate in such participate in such testing in such testing under such testing under this testing under this regulation under this regulation is this regulation is distinct regulation is distinct from is distinct from and distinct from and without from and without prejudice and without prejudice to without prejudice to consent prejudice to consent of to consent of data consent of data subjects of data subjects for data subjects for the subjects for the processing for the processing of the processing of their processing of their personal of their personal data their personal data under personal data under the data under the relevant under the relevant data the relevant data protection relevant data protection law.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to promote promote and and protect protect innovation innovation it it is is important important that that the the interests interests of of sme sme providers providers and and users users of of ai ai systems systems are are taken taken into into particular particular account.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to promote to promote and promote and protect and protect innovation protect innovation it innovation it is it is important is important that important that the that the interests the interests of interests of sme of sme providers sme providers and providers and users and users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems are systems are taken are taken into taken into particular into particular account.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to promote order to promote and to promote and protect promote and protect innovation and protect innovation it protect innovation it is innovation it is important it is important that is important that the important that the interests that the interests of the interests of sme interests of sme providers of sme providers and sme providers and users providers and users of and users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems are ai systems are taken systems are taken into are taken into particular taken into particular account.
to this this objective objective member member states states should should develop develop initiatives initiatives which which are are targeted targeted at at those those operators operators including including on on awareness awareness raising raising and and information information communication.
to this objective this objective member objective member states member states should states should develop should develop initiatives develop initiatives which initiatives which are which are targeted are targeted at targeted at those at those operators those operators including operators including on including on awareness on awareness raising awareness raising and raising and information and information communication.
to this objective member this objective member states objective member states should member states should develop states should develop initiatives should develop initiatives which develop initiatives which are initiatives which are targeted which are targeted at are targeted at those targeted at those operators at those operators including those operators including on operators including on awareness including on awareness raising on awareness raising and awareness raising and information raising and information communication.
moreover the the specific specific interests interests and and needs needs of of sme sme providers providers shall shall be be taken taken into into account account when when notified notified bodies bodies set set conformity conformity assessment assessment fees.
moreover the specific the specific interests specific interests and interests and needs and needs of needs of sme of sme providers sme providers shall providers shall be shall be taken be taken into taken into account into account when account when notified when notified bodies notified bodies set bodies set conformity set conformity assessment conformity assessment fees.
moreover the specific interests the specific interests and specific interests and needs interests and needs of and needs of sme needs of sme providers of sme providers shall sme providers shall be providers shall be taken shall be taken into be taken into account taken into account when into account when notified account when notified bodies when notified bodies set notified bodies set conformity bodies set conformity assessment set conformity assessment fees.
translation costs costs related related to to mandatory mandatory documentation documentation and and communication communication with with authorities authorities may may constitute constitute a a significant significant cost cost for for providers providers and and other other operators operators notably notably those those of of a a smaller smaller scale.
translation costs related costs related to related to mandatory to mandatory documentation mandatory documentation and documentation and communication and communication with communication with authorities with authorities may authorities may constitute may constitute a constitute a significant a significant cost significant cost for cost for providers for providers and providers and other and other operators other operators notably operators notably those notably those of those of a of a smaller a smaller scale.
translation costs related to costs related to mandatory related to mandatory documentation to mandatory documentation and mandatory documentation and communication documentation and communication with and communication with authorities communication with authorities may with authorities may constitute authorities may constitute a may constitute a significant constitute a significant cost a significant cost for significant cost for providers cost for providers and for providers and other providers and other operators and other operators notably other operators notably those operators notably those of notably those of a those of a smaller of a smaller scale.
member states states should should possibly possibly ensure ensure that that one one of of the the languages languages determined determined and and accepted accepted by by them them for for relevant relevant providers’ providers’ documentation documentation and and for for communication communication with with operators operators is is one one which which is is broadly broadly understood understood by by the the largest largest possible possible number number of of cross-border cross-border users.
member states should states should possibly should possibly ensure possibly ensure that ensure that one that one of one of the of the languages the languages determined languages determined and determined and accepted and accepted by accepted by them by them for them for relevant for relevant providers’ relevant providers’ documentation providers’ documentation and documentation and for and for communication for communication with communication with operators with operators is operators is one is one which one which is which is broadly is broadly understood broadly understood by understood by the by the largest the largest possible largest possible number possible number of number of cross-border of cross-border users.
member states should possibly states should possibly ensure should possibly ensure that possibly ensure that one ensure that one of that one of the one of the languages of the languages determined the languages determined and languages determined and accepted determined and accepted by and accepted by them accepted by them for by them for relevant them for relevant providers’ for relevant providers’ documentation relevant providers’ documentation and providers’ documentation and for documentation and for communication and for communication with for communication with operators communication with operators is with operators is one operators is one which is one which is one which is broadly which is broadly understood is broadly understood by broadly understood by the understood by the largest by the largest possible the largest possible number largest possible number of possible number of cross-border number of cross-border users.
a in in order order to to promote promote and and protect protect innovation innovation the the ai-on ai-on demand demand platform platform all all relevant relevant eu eu funding funding programmes programmes and and projects projects such such as as digital digital europe europe programme programme horizon horizon europe europe implemented implemented by by the the commission commission and and the the member member states states at at national national or or eu eu level level should should contribute contribute to to the the achievement achievement of of the the objectives objectives of of this this regulation.
a in order in order to order to promote to promote and promote and protect and protect innovation protect innovation the innovation the ai-on the ai-on demand ai-on demand platform demand platform all platform all relevant all relevant eu relevant eu funding eu funding programmes funding programmes and programmes and projects and projects such projects such as such as digital as digital europe digital europe programme europe programme horizon programme horizon europe horizon europe implemented europe implemented by implemented by the by the commission the commission and commission and the and the member the member states member states at states at national at national or national or eu or eu level eu level should level should contribute should contribute to contribute to the to the achievement the achievement of achievement of the of the objectives the objectives of objectives of this of this regulation.
a in order to in order to promote order to promote and to promote and protect promote and protect innovation and protect innovation the protect innovation the ai-on innovation the ai-on demand the ai-on demand platform ai-on demand platform all demand platform all relevant platform all relevant eu all relevant eu funding relevant eu funding programmes eu funding programmes and funding programmes and projects programmes and projects such and projects such as projects such as digital such as digital europe as digital europe programme digital europe programme horizon europe programme horizon europe programme horizon europe implemented horizon europe implemented by europe implemented by the implemented by the commission by the commission and the commission and the commission and the member and the member states the member states at member states at national states at national or at national or eu national or eu level or eu level should eu level should contribute level should contribute to should contribute to the contribute to the achievement to the achievement of the achievement of the achievement of the objectives of the objectives of the objectives of this objectives of this regulation.
in particular particular in in order order to to minimise minimise the the risks risks to to implementation implementation resulting resulting from from lack lack of of knowledge knowledge and and expertise expertise in in the the market market as as well well as as to to facilitate facilitate compliance compliance of of providers providers notably notably smes smes and and notified notified bodies bodies with with their their obligations obligations under under this this regulation regulation the the ai-on ai-on demand demand platform platform the the european european digital digital innovation innovation hubs hubs and and the the testing testing and and experimentation experimentation facilities facilities established established by by the the commission commission and and the the member member states states at at national national or or eu eu level level should should possibly possibly contribute contribute to to the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation.
in particular in particular in order in order to order to minimise to minimise the minimise the risks the risks to risks to implementation to implementation resulting implementation resulting from resulting from lack from lack of lack of knowledge of knowledge and knowledge and expertise and expertise in expertise in the in the market the market as market as well as well as well as to as to facilitate to facilitate compliance facilitate compliance of compliance of providers of providers notably providers notably smes notably smes and smes and notified and notified bodies notified bodies with bodies with their with their obligations their obligations under obligations under this under this regulation this regulation the regulation the ai-on the ai-on demand ai-on demand platform demand platform the platform the european the european digital european digital innovation digital innovation hubs innovation hubs and hubs and the and the testing the testing and testing and experimentation and experimentation facilities experimentation facilities established facilities established by established by the by the commission the commission and commission and the and the member the member states member states at states at national at national or national or eu or eu level eu level should level should possibly should possibly contribute possibly contribute to contribute to the to the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation.
in particular in order particular in order to in order to minimise order to minimise the to minimise the risks minimise the risks to the risks to implementation risks to implementation resulting to implementation resulting from implementation resulting from lack resulting from lack of from lack of knowledge lack of knowledge and of knowledge and expertise knowledge and expertise in and expertise in the expertise in the market in the market as the market as well market as well as as well as to well as to facilitate as to facilitate compliance to facilitate compliance of facilitate compliance of providers compliance of providers notably of providers notably smes providers notably smes and notably smes and notified smes and notified bodies and notified bodies with notified bodies with their bodies with their obligations with their obligations under their obligations under this obligations under this regulation under this regulation the this regulation the ai-on regulation the ai-on demand the ai-on demand platform ai-on demand platform the demand platform the european platform the european digital the european digital innovation european digital innovation hubs digital innovation hubs and innovation hubs and the hubs and the testing and the testing and the testing and experimentation testing and experimentation facilities and experimentation facilities established experimentation facilities established by facilities established by the established by the commission by the commission and the commission and the commission and the member and the member states the member states at member states at national states at national or at national or eu national or eu level or eu level should eu level should possibly level should possibly contribute should possibly contribute to possibly contribute to the contribute to the implementation to the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation.
within their their respective respective mission mission and and fields fields of of competence competence they they may may provide provide in in particular particular technical technical and and scientific scientific support support to to providers providers and and notified notified bodies.
within their respective their respective mission respective mission and mission and fields and fields of fields of competence of competence they competence they may they may provide may provide in provide in particular in particular technical particular technical and technical and scientific and scientific support scientific support to support to providers to providers and providers and notified and notified bodies.
within their respective mission their respective mission and respective mission and fields mission and fields of and fields of competence fields of competence they of competence they may competence they may provide they may provide in may provide in particular provide in particular technical in particular technical and particular technical and scientific technical and scientific support and scientific support to scientific support to providers support to providers and to providers and notified providers and notified bodies.
a moreover moreover in in order order to to ensure ensure proportionality proportionality considering considering the the very very small small size size of of some some operators operators regarding regarding costs costs of of innovation innovation it it is is appropriate appropriate to to exempt exempt microenterprises microenterprises from from the the most most costly costly obligations obligations such such as as to to establish establish a a quality quality management management system system which which would would reduce reduce the the administrative administrative burden burden and and the the costs costs for for those those enterprises enterprises without without affecting affecting the the level level of of protection protection and and the the need need for for compliance compliance with with the the requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
a moreover in moreover in order in order to order to ensure to ensure proportionality ensure proportionality considering proportionality considering the considering the very the very small very small size small size of size of some of some operators some operators regarding operators regarding costs regarding costs of costs of innovation of innovation it innovation it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to exempt to exempt microenterprises exempt microenterprises from microenterprises from the from the most the most costly most costly obligations costly obligations such obligations such as such as to as to establish to establish a establish a quality a quality management quality management system management system which system which would which would reduce would reduce the reduce the administrative the administrative burden administrative burden and burden and the and the costs the costs for costs for those for those enterprises those enterprises without enterprises without affecting without affecting the affecting the level the level of level of protection of protection and protection and the and the need the need for need for compliance for compliance with compliance with the with the requirements the requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
a moreover in order moreover in order to in order to ensure order to ensure proportionality to ensure proportionality considering ensure proportionality considering the proportionality considering the very considering the very small the very small size very small size of small size of some size of some operators of some operators regarding some operators regarding costs operators regarding costs of regarding costs of innovation costs of innovation it of innovation it is innovation it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to exempt appropriate to exempt microenterprises to exempt microenterprises from exempt microenterprises from the microenterprises from the most from the most costly the most costly obligations most costly obligations such costly obligations such as obligations such as to such as to establish as to establish a to establish a quality establish a quality management a quality management system quality management system which management system which would system which would reduce which would reduce the would reduce the administrative reduce the administrative burden the administrative burden and administrative burden and the burden and the costs and the costs for the costs for those costs for those enterprises for those enterprises without those enterprises without affecting enterprises without affecting the without affecting the level affecting the level of the level of protection level of protection and of protection and the protection and the need and the need for the need for compliance need for compliance with for compliance with the compliance with the requirements with the requirements for the requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems.
tree..b rbek rbek en en it it is is appropriate appropriate that that the the commission commission facilitates facilitates to to the the extent extent possible possible access access to to testing testing and and experimentation experimentation facilities facilities to to bodies bodies groups groups or or laboratories laboratories established established or or accredited accredited pursuant pursuant to to any any relevant relevant union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation and and which which fulfil fulfil tasks tasks in in the the context context of of conformity conformity assessment assessment of of products products or or devices devices covered covered by by that that union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation.
tree..b rbek en rbek en it en it is it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that the that the commission the commission facilitates commission facilitates to facilitates to the to the extent the extent possible extent possible access possible access to access to testing to testing and testing and experimentation and experimentation facilities experimentation facilities to facilities to bodies to bodies groups bodies groups or groups or laboratories or laboratories established laboratories established or established or accredited or accredited pursuant accredited pursuant to pursuant to any to any relevant any relevant union relevant union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation and legislation and which and which fulfil which fulfil tasks fulfil tasks in tasks in the in the context the context of context of conformity of conformity assessment conformity assessment of assessment of products of products or products or devices or devices covered devices covered by covered by that by that union that union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation.
tree..b rbek en it rbek en it is en it is appropriate it is appropriate that is appropriate that the appropriate that the commission that the commission facilitates the commission facilitates to commission facilitates to the facilitates to the extent to the extent possible the extent possible access extent possible access to possible access to testing access to testing and to testing and experimentation testing and experimentation facilities and experimentation facilities to experimentation facilities to bodies facilities to bodies groups to bodies groups or bodies groups or laboratories groups or laboratories established or laboratories established or laboratories established or accredited established or accredited pursuant or accredited pursuant to accredited pursuant to any pursuant to any relevant to any relevant union any relevant union harmonisation relevant union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation and harmonisation legislation and which legislation and which fulfil and which fulfil tasks which fulfil tasks in fulfil tasks in the tasks in the context in the context of the context of conformity context of conformity assessment of conformity assessment of conformity assessment of products assessment of products or of products or devices products or devices covered or devices covered by devices covered by that covered by that union by that union harmonisation that union harmonisation legislation.
this is is notably notably the the case case for for expert expert panels panels expert expert laboratories laboratories and and reference reference laboratories laboratories in in the the field field of of medical medical devices devices pursuant pursuant to to regulation regulation eu eu and and regulation regulation eu eu .
this is notably is notably the notably the case the case for case for expert for expert panels expert panels expert panels expert laboratories expert laboratories and laboratories and reference and reference laboratories reference laboratories in laboratories in the in the field the field of field of medical of medical devices medical devices pursuant devices pursuant to pursuant to regulation to regulation eu regulation eu and eu and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu .
this is notably the is notably the case notably the case for the case for expert case for expert panels for expert panels expert expert panels expert laboratories panels expert laboratories and expert laboratories and reference laboratories and reference laboratories and reference laboratories in reference laboratories in the laboratories in the field in the field of the field of medical field of medical devices of medical devices pursuant medical devices pursuant to devices pursuant to regulation pursuant to regulation eu to regulation eu and regulation eu and regulation eu and regulation eu and regulation eu .
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to facilitate facilitate a a smooth smooth effective effective and and harmonised harmonised implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation a a european european artificial artificial intelligence intelligence board board should should be be established.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to facilitate to facilitate a facilitate a smooth a smooth effective smooth effective and effective and harmonised and harmonised implementation harmonised implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation a regulation a european a european artificial european artificial intelligence artificial intelligence board intelligence board should board should be should be established.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to facilitate order to facilitate a to facilitate a smooth facilitate a smooth effective a smooth effective and smooth effective and harmonised effective and harmonised implementation and harmonised implementation of harmonised implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation a this regulation a european regulation a european artificial a european artificial intelligence european artificial intelligence board artificial intelligence board should intelligence board should be board should be established.
the board board should should reflect reflect the the various various interests interests of of the the ai ai eco-system eco-system and and be be composed composed of of representatives representatives of of the the member member states.
the board should board should reflect should reflect the reflect the various the various interests various interests of interests of the of the ai the ai eco-system ai eco-system and eco-system and be and be composed be composed of composed of representatives of representatives of representatives of the of the member the member states.
the board should reflect board should reflect the should reflect the various reflect the various interests the various interests of various interests of the interests of the ai of the ai eco-system the ai eco-system and ai eco-system and be eco-system and be composed and be composed of be composed of representatives composed of representatives of of representatives of the representatives of the member of the member states.
in order order to to ensure ensure the the involvement involvement of of relevant relevant stakeholders stakeholders a a standing standing subgroup subgroup of of the the board board should should be be created.
in order to order to ensure to ensure the ensure the involvement the involvement of involvement of relevant of relevant stakeholders relevant stakeholders a stakeholders a standing a standing subgroup standing subgroup of subgroup of the of the board the board should board should be should be created.
in order to ensure order to ensure the to ensure the involvement ensure the involvement of the involvement of relevant involvement of relevant stakeholders of relevant stakeholders a relevant stakeholders a standing stakeholders a standing subgroup a standing subgroup of standing subgroup of the subgroup of the board of the board should the board should be board should be created.
the board board should should be be responsible responsible for for a a number number of of advisory advisory tasks tasks including including issuing issuing opinions opinions recommendations recommendations advice advice or or contributing contributing to to guidance guidance on on matters matters related related to to the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation including including on on enforcement enforcement matters matters technical technical specifications specifications or or existing existing standards standards regarding regarding the the requirements requirements established established in in this this regulation regulation and and providing providing advice advice to to the the commission commission and and the the member member states states and and their their national national competent competent authorities authorities on on specific specific questions questions related related to to artificial artificial intelligence.
the board should board should be should be responsible be responsible for responsible for a for a number a number of number of advisory of advisory tasks advisory tasks including tasks including issuing including issuing opinions issuing opinions recommendations opinions recommendations advice recommendations advice or advice or contributing or contributing to contributing to guidance to guidance on guidance on matters on matters related matters related to related to the to the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation including regulation including on including on enforcement on enforcement matters enforcement matters technical matters technical specifications technical specifications or specifications or existing or existing standards existing standards regarding standards regarding the regarding the requirements the requirements established requirements established in established in this in this regulation this regulation and regulation and providing and providing advice providing advice to advice to the to the commission the commission and commission and the and the member the member states member states and states and their and their national their national competent national competent authorities competent authorities on authorities on specific on specific questions specific questions related questions related to related to artificial to artificial intelligence.
the board should be board should be responsible should be responsible for be responsible for a responsible for a number for a number of a number of advisory number of advisory tasks of advisory tasks including advisory tasks including issuing tasks including issuing opinions including issuing opinions recommendations issuing opinions recommendations advice opinions recommendations advice or recommendations advice or contributing advice or contributing to or contributing to guidance contributing to guidance on to guidance on matters guidance on matters related on matters related to matters related to the related to the implementation to the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation including this regulation including on regulation including on enforcement including on enforcement matters on enforcement matters technical enforcement matters technical specifications matters technical specifications or technical specifications or existing specifications or existing standards or existing standards regarding existing standards regarding the standards regarding the requirements regarding the requirements established the requirements established in requirements established in this established in this regulation in this regulation and this regulation and providing regulation and providing advice and providing advice to providing advice to the advice to the commission to the commission and the commission and the commission and the member and the member states the member states and member states and their states and their national and their national competent their national competent authorities national competent authorities on competent authorities on specific authorities on specific questions on specific questions related specific questions related to questions related to artificial related to artificial intelligence.
in order order to to give give some some flexibility flexibility to to member member states states in in the the designation designation of of their their representatives representatives in in the the ai ai board board such such representatives representatives may may be be any any persons persons belonging belonging to to public public entities entities who who should should have have the the relevant relevant competences competences and and powers powers to to facilitate facilitate coordination coordination at at national national level level and and contribute contribute to to the the achievement achievement of of the the boards boards tasks.
in order to order to give to give some give some flexibility some flexibility to flexibility to member to member states member states in states in the in the designation the designation of designation of their of their representatives their representatives in representatives in the in the ai the ai board ai board such board such representatives such representatives may representatives may be may be any be any persons any persons belonging persons belonging to belonging to public to public entities public entities who entities who should who should have should have the have the relevant the relevant competences relevant competences and competences and powers and powers to powers to facilitate to facilitate coordination facilitate coordination at coordination at national at national level national level and level and contribute and contribute to contribute to the to the achievement the achievement of achievement of the of the boards the boards tasks.
in order to give order to give some to give some flexibility give some flexibility to some flexibility to member flexibility to member states to member states in member states in the states in the designation in the designation of the designation of their designation of their representatives of their representatives in their representatives in the representatives in the ai in the ai board the ai board such ai board such representatives board such representatives may such representatives may be representatives may be any may be any persons be any persons belonging any persons belonging to persons belonging to public belonging to public entities to public entities who public entities who should entities who should have who should have the should have the relevant have the relevant competences the relevant competences and relevant competences and powers competences and powers to and powers to facilitate powers to facilitate coordination to facilitate coordination at facilitate coordination at national coordination at national level at national level and national level and contribute level and contribute to and contribute to the contribute to the achievement to the achievement of the achievement of the achievement of the boards of the boards tasks.
the board board should should establish establish two two standing standing sub-groups sub-groups to to provide provide a a platform platform for for cooperation cooperation and and exchange exchange among among market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities and and notifying notifying authorities authorities on on issues issues related related respectively respectively to to market market surveillance surveillance and and notified notified bodies.
the board should board should establish should establish two establish two standing two standing sub-groups standing sub-groups to sub-groups to provide to provide a provide a platform a platform for platform for cooperation for cooperation and cooperation and exchange and exchange among exchange among market among market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities and authorities and notifying and notifying authorities notifying authorities on authorities on issues on issues related issues related respectively related respectively to respectively to market to market surveillance market surveillance and surveillance and notified and notified bodies.
the board should establish board should establish two should establish two standing establish two standing sub-groups two standing sub-groups to standing sub-groups to provide sub-groups to provide a to provide a platform provide a platform for a platform for cooperation platform for cooperation and for cooperation and exchange cooperation and exchange among and exchange among market exchange among market surveillance among market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities and surveillance authorities and notifying authorities and notifying authorities and notifying authorities on notifying authorities on issues authorities on issues related on issues related respectively issues related respectively to related respectively to market respectively to market surveillance to market surveillance and market surveillance and notified surveillance and notified bodies.
the standing standing subgroup subgroup for for market market surveillance surveillance should should act act as as the the administrative administrative cooperation cooperation group group adco adco for for this this regulation regulation in in the the meaning meaning of of article article of of regulation regulation eu eu .
the standing subgroup standing subgroup for subgroup for market for market surveillance market surveillance should surveillance should act should act as act as the as the administrative the administrative cooperation administrative cooperation group cooperation group adco group adco for adco for this for this regulation this regulation in regulation in the in the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu .
the standing subgroup for standing subgroup for market subgroup for market surveillance for market surveillance should market surveillance should act surveillance should act as should act as the act as the administrative as the administrative cooperation the administrative cooperation group administrative cooperation group adco cooperation group adco for group adco for this adco for this regulation for this regulation in this regulation in the regulation in the meaning in the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article of of article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu .
in line line with with the the role role and and tasks tasks of of the the commission commission pursuant pursuant to to article article of of regulation regulation eu eu the the commission commission should should support support the the activities activities of of the the standing standing subgroup subgroup for for market market surveillance surveillance by by undertaking undertaking market market evaluations evaluations or or studies studies notably notably with with a a view view to to identifying identifying aspects aspects of of this this regulation regulation requiring requiring specific specific and and urgent urgent coordination coordination among among market market surveillance surveillance authorities.
in line with line with the with the role the role and role and tasks and tasks of tasks of the of the commission the commission pursuant commission pursuant to pursuant to article to article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu the eu the commission the commission should commission should support should support the support the activities the activities of activities of the of the standing the standing subgroup standing subgroup for subgroup for market for market surveillance market surveillance by surveillance by undertaking by undertaking market undertaking market evaluations market evaluations or evaluations or studies or studies notably studies notably with notably with a with a view a view to view to identifying to identifying aspects identifying aspects of aspects of this of this regulation this regulation requiring regulation requiring specific requiring specific and specific and urgent and urgent coordination urgent coordination among coordination among market among market surveillance market surveillance authorities.
in line with the line with the role with the role and the role and tasks role and tasks of and tasks of the tasks of the commission of the commission pursuant the commission pursuant to commission pursuant to article pursuant to article of to article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu the regulation eu the commission eu the commission should the commission should support commission should support the should support the activities support the activities of the activities of the activities of the standing of the standing subgroup the standing subgroup for standing subgroup for market subgroup for market surveillance for market surveillance by market surveillance by undertaking surveillance by undertaking market by undertaking market evaluations undertaking market evaluations or market evaluations or studies evaluations or studies notably or studies notably with studies notably with a notably with a view with a view to a view to identifying view to identifying aspects to identifying aspects of identifying aspects of this aspects of this regulation of this regulation requiring this regulation requiring specific regulation requiring specific and requiring specific and urgent specific and urgent coordination and urgent coordination among urgent coordination among market coordination among market surveillance among market surveillance authorities.
the board board may may establish establish other other standing standing or or temporary temporary sub-groups sub-groups as as appropriate appropriate for for the the purpose purpose of of examining examining specific specific issues.
the board may board may establish may establish other establish other standing other standing or standing or temporary or temporary sub-groups temporary sub-groups as sub-groups as appropriate as appropriate for appropriate for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of examining of examining specific examining specific issues.
the board may establish board may establish other may establish other standing establish other standing or other standing or temporary standing or temporary sub-groups or temporary sub-groups as temporary sub-groups as appropriate sub-groups as appropriate for as appropriate for the appropriate for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of examining purpose of examining specific of examining specific issues.
the board board should should also also cooperate cooperate as as appropriate appropriate with with relevant relevant eu eu bodies bodies experts experts groups groups and and networks networks active active in in the the context context of of relevant relevant eu eu legislation legislation including including in in particular particular those those active active under under relevant relevant eu eu regulation regulation on on data data digital digital products products and and services.
the board should board should also should also cooperate also cooperate as cooperate as appropriate as appropriate with appropriate with relevant with relevant eu relevant eu bodies eu bodies experts bodies experts groups experts groups and groups and networks and networks active networks active in active in the in the context the context of context of relevant of relevant eu relevant eu legislation eu legislation including legislation including in including in particular in particular those particular those active those active under active under relevant under relevant eu relevant eu regulation eu regulation on regulation on data on data digital data digital products digital products and products and services.
the board should also board should also cooperate should also cooperate as also cooperate as appropriate cooperate as appropriate with as appropriate with relevant appropriate with relevant eu with relevant eu bodies relevant eu bodies experts eu bodies experts groups bodies experts groups and experts groups and networks groups and networks active and networks active in networks active in the active in the context in the context of the context of relevant context of relevant eu of relevant eu legislation relevant eu legislation including eu legislation including in legislation including in particular including in particular those in particular those active particular those active under those active under relevant active under relevant eu under relevant eu regulation relevant eu regulation on eu regulation on data regulation on data digital on data digital products data digital products and digital products and services.
tree..b rbek rbek en en a a the the commission commission should should actively actively support support the the member member states states and and operators operators in in the the implementation implementation and and enforcement enforcement of of this this regulation.
tree..b rbek en rbek en a en a the a the commission the commission should commission should actively should actively support actively support the support the member the member states member states and states and operators and operators in operators in the in the implementation the implementation and implementation and enforcement and enforcement of enforcement of this of this regulation.
tree..b rbek en a rbek en a the en a the commission a the commission should the commission should actively commission should actively support should actively support the actively support the member support the member states the member states and member states and operators states and operators in and operators in the operators in the implementation in the implementation and the implementation and enforcement implementation and enforcement of and enforcement of this enforcement of this regulation.
in this this regard regard it it should should develop develop guidelines guidelines on on particular particular topics topics aiming aiming at at facilitating facilitating the the application application of of this this regulation regulation while while paying paying particular particular attention attention to to the the needs needs of of smes smes and and start-us start-us in in sectors sectors most most likely likely to to be be affected.
in this regard this regard it regard it should it should develop should develop guidelines develop guidelines on guidelines on particular on particular topics particular topics aiming topics aiming at aiming at facilitating at facilitating the facilitating the application the application of application of this of this regulation this regulation while regulation while paying while paying particular paying particular attention particular attention to attention to the to the needs the needs of needs of smes of smes and smes and start-us and start-us in start-us in sectors in sectors most sectors most likely most likely to likely to be to be affected.
in this regard it this regard it should regard it should develop it should develop guidelines should develop guidelines on develop guidelines on particular guidelines on particular topics on particular topics aiming particular topics aiming at topics aiming at facilitating aiming at facilitating the at facilitating the application facilitating the application of the application of this application of this regulation of this regulation while this regulation while paying regulation while paying particular while paying particular attention paying particular attention to particular attention to the attention to the needs to the needs of the needs of smes needs of smes and of smes and start-us smes and start-us in and start-us in sectors start-us in sectors most in sectors most likely sectors most likely to most likely to be likely to be affected.
in order order to to support support adequate adequate enforcement enforcement and and the the capacities capacities of of the the member member states states union union testing testing facilities facilities on on ai ai and and a a pool pool of of relevant relevant experts experts should should be be established established and and made made available available to to the the member member states.
in order to order to support to support adequate support adequate enforcement adequate enforcement and enforcement and the and the capacities the capacities of capacities of the of the member the member states member states union states union testing union testing facilities testing facilities on facilities on ai on ai and ai and a and a pool a pool of pool of relevant of relevant experts relevant experts should experts should be should be established be established and established and made and made available made available to available to the to the member the member states.
in order to support order to support adequate to support adequate enforcement support adequate enforcement and adequate enforcement and the enforcement and the capacities and the capacities of the capacities of the capacities of the member of the member states the member states union member states union testing states union testing facilities union testing facilities on testing facilities on ai facilities on ai and on ai and a ai and a pool and a pool of a pool of relevant pool of relevant experts of relevant experts should relevant experts should be experts should be established should be established and be established and made established and made available and made available to made available to the available to the member to the member states.
member states states hold hold a a key key role role in in the the application application and and enforcement enforcement of of this this regulation.
member states hold states hold a hold a key a key role key role in role in the in the application the application and application and enforcement and enforcement of enforcement of this of this regulation.
member states hold a states hold a key hold a key role a key role in key role in the role in the application in the application and the application and enforcement application and enforcement of and enforcement of this enforcement of this regulation.
in this this respect respect each each member member state state should should designate designate one one or or more more national national competent competent authorities authorities for for the the purpose purpose of of supervising supervising the the application application and and implementation implementation of of this this regulation.
in this respect this respect each respect each member each member state member state should state should designate should designate one designate one or one or more or more national more national competent national competent authorities competent authorities for authorities for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of supervising of supervising the supervising the application the application and application and implementation and implementation of implementation of this of this regulation.
in this respect each this respect each member respect each member state each member state should member state should designate state should designate one should designate one or designate one or more one or more national or more national competent more national competent authorities national competent authorities for competent authorities for the authorities for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of supervising purpose of supervising the of supervising the application supervising the application and the application and implementation application and implementation of and implementation of this implementation of this regulation.
member states states may may decide decide to to appoint appoint any any kind kind of of public public entity entity to to perform perform the the tasks tasks of of the the national national competent competent authorities authorities within within the the meaning meaning of of this this regulation regulation in in accordance accordance with with their their specific specific national national organisational organisational characteristics characteristics and and needs.
member states may states may decide may decide to decide to appoint to appoint any appoint any kind any kind of kind of public of public entity public entity to entity to perform to perform the perform the tasks the tasks of tasks of the of the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities within authorities within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of this of this regulation this regulation in regulation in accordance in accordance with accordance with their with their specific their specific national specific national organisational national organisational characteristics organisational characteristics and characteristics and needs.
member states may decide states may decide to may decide to appoint decide to appoint any to appoint any kind appoint any kind of any kind of public kind of public entity of public entity to public entity to perform entity to perform the to perform the tasks perform the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the national of the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities within competent authorities within the authorities within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of this meaning of this regulation of this regulation in this regulation in accordance regulation in accordance with in accordance with their accordance with their specific with their specific national their specific national organisational specific national organisational characteristics national organisational characteristics and organisational characteristics and needs.
in order order to to ensure ensure that that providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems can can take take into into account account the the experience experience on on the the use use of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems for for improving improving their their systems systems and and the the design design and and development development process process or or can can take take any any possible possible corrective corrective action action in in a a timely timely manner manner all all providers providers should should have have a a post-market post-market monitoring monitoring system system in in place.
in order to order to ensure to ensure that ensure that providers that providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems can systems can take can take into take into account into account the account the experience the experience on experience on the on the use the use of use of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems for systems for improving for improving their improving their systems their systems and systems and the and the design the design and design and development and development process development process or process or can or can take can take any take any possible any possible corrective possible corrective action corrective action in action in a in a timely a timely manner timely manner all manner all providers all providers should providers should have should have a have a post-market a post-market monitoring post-market monitoring system monitoring system in system in place.
in order to ensure order to ensure that to ensure that providers ensure that providers of that providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems can ai systems can take systems can take into can take into account take into account the into account the experience account the experience on the experience on the experience on the use on the use of the use of high-risk use of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems for ai systems for improving systems for improving their for improving their systems improving their systems and their systems and the systems and the design and the design and the design and development design and development process and development process or development process or can process or can take or can take any can take any possible take any possible corrective any possible corrective action possible corrective action in corrective action in a action in a timely in a timely manner a timely manner all timely manner all providers manner all providers should all providers should have providers should have a should have a post-market have a post-market monitoring a post-market monitoring system post-market monitoring system in monitoring system in place.
this system system is is also also key key to to ensure ensure that that the the possible possible risks risks emerging emerging from from ai ai systems systems which which continue continue to to ‘learn’ ‘learn’ after after being being placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service can can be be more more efficiently efficiently and and timely timely addressed.
this system is system is also is also key also key to key to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the possible the possible risks possible risks emerging risks emerging from emerging from ai from ai systems ai systems which systems which continue which continue to continue to ‘learn’ to ‘learn’ after ‘learn’ after being after being placed being placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service can service can be can be more be more efficiently more efficiently and efficiently and timely and timely addressed.
this system is also system is also key is also key to also key to ensure key to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the possible that the possible risks the possible risks emerging possible risks emerging from risks emerging from ai emerging from ai systems from ai systems which ai systems which continue systems which continue to which continue to ‘learn’ continue to ‘learn’ after to ‘learn’ after being ‘learn’ after being placed after being placed on being placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service can into service can be service can be more can be more efficiently be more efficiently and more efficiently and timely efficiently and timely addressed.
in this this context context providers providers should should also also be be required required to to have have a a system system in in place place to to report report to to the the relevant relevant authorities authorities any any serious serious incidents incidents resulting resulting from from the the use use of of their their ai ai systems.
in this context this context providers context providers should providers should also should also be also be required be required to required to have to have a have a system a system in system in place in place to place to report to report to report to the to the relevant the relevant authorities relevant authorities any authorities any serious any serious incidents serious incidents resulting incidents resulting from resulting from the from the use the use of use of their of their ai their ai systems.
in this context providers this context providers should context providers should also providers should also be should also be required also be required to be required to have required to have a to have a system have a system in a system in place system in place to in place to report place to report to to report to the report to the relevant to the relevant authorities the relevant authorities any relevant authorities any serious authorities any serious incidents any serious incidents resulting serious incidents resulting from incidents resulting from the resulting from the use from the use of the use of their use of their ai of their ai systems.
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to ensure ensure an an appropriate appropriate and and effective effective enforcement enforcement of of the the requirements requirements and and obligations obligations set set out out by by this this regulation regulation which which is is union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation the the system system of of market market surveillance surveillance and and compliance compliance of of products products established established by by regulation regulation eu eu should should apply apply in in its its entirety.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to ensure to ensure an ensure an appropriate an appropriate and appropriate and effective and effective enforcement effective enforcement of enforcement of the of the requirements the requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations set obligations set out set out by out by this by this regulation this regulation which regulation which is which is union is union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation the legislation the system the system of system of market of market surveillance market surveillance and surveillance and compliance and compliance of compliance of products of products established products established by established by regulation by regulation eu regulation eu should eu should apply should apply in apply in its in its entirety.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to ensure order to ensure an to ensure an appropriate ensure an appropriate and an appropriate and effective appropriate and effective enforcement and effective enforcement of effective enforcement of the enforcement of the requirements of the requirements and the requirements and obligations requirements and obligations set and obligations set out obligations set out by set out by this out by this regulation by this regulation which this regulation which is regulation which is union which is union harmonisation is union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation the harmonisation legislation the system legislation the system of the system of market system of market surveillance of market surveillance and market surveillance and compliance surveillance and compliance of and compliance of products compliance of products established of products established by products established by regulation established by regulation eu by regulation eu should regulation eu should apply eu should apply in should apply in its apply in its entirety.
market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities designated designated pursuant pursuant to to this this regulation regulation should should have have all all enforcement enforcement powers powers under under this this regulation regulation and and regulation regulation eu eu and and should should exercise exercise their their powers powers and and carry carry out out their their duties duties independently independently impartially impartially and and without without bias.
market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities designated authorities designated pursuant designated pursuant to pursuant to this to this regulation this regulation should regulation should have should have all have all enforcement all enforcement powers enforcement powers under powers under this under this regulation this regulation and regulation and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu and eu and should and should exercise should exercise their exercise their powers their powers and powers and carry and carry out carry out their out their duties their duties independently duties independently impartially independently impartially and impartially and without and without bias.
market surveillance authorities designated surveillance authorities designated pursuant authorities designated pursuant to designated pursuant to this pursuant to this regulation to this regulation should this regulation should have regulation should have all should have all enforcement have all enforcement powers all enforcement powers under enforcement powers under this powers under this regulation under this regulation and this regulation and regulation regulation and regulation eu and regulation eu and regulation eu and should eu and should exercise and should exercise their should exercise their powers exercise their powers and their powers and carry powers and carry out and carry out their carry out their duties out their duties independently their duties independently impartially duties independently impartially and independently impartially and without impartially and without bias.
although the the majority majority of of ai ai systems systems are are not not subject subject to to specific specific requirements requirements and and obligations obligations under under this this regualtion regualtion market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities may may take take measures measures in in relation relation to to all all ai ai systems systems when when they they present present a a risk risk in in accordance accordance with with this this regulation.
although the majority the majority of majority of ai of ai systems ai systems are systems are not are not subject not subject to subject to specific to specific requirements specific requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations under obligations under this under this regualtion this regualtion market regualtion market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities may authorities may take may take measures take measures in measures in relation in relation to relation to all to all ai all ai systems ai systems when systems when they when they present they present a present a risk a risk in risk in accordance in accordance with accordance with this with this regulation.
although the majority of the majority of ai majority of ai systems of ai systems are ai systems are not systems are not subject are not subject to not subject to specific subject to specific requirements to specific requirements and specific requirements and obligations requirements and obligations under and obligations under this obligations under this regualtion under this regualtion market this regualtion market surveillance regualtion market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities may surveillance authorities may take authorities may take measures may take measures in take measures in relation measures in relation to in relation to all relation to all ai to all ai systems all ai systems when ai systems when they systems when they present when they present a they present a risk present a risk in a risk in accordance risk in accordance with in accordance with this accordance with this regulation.
due to to the the specific specific nature nature of of union union institutions institutions agencies agencies and and bodies bodies falling falling within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation regulation it it is is appropriate appropriate to to designate designate the the european european data data protection protection supervisor supervisor as as a a competent competent market market surveillance surveillance authority authority for for them.
due to the to the specific the specific nature specific nature of nature of union of union institutions union institutions agencies institutions agencies and agencies and bodies and bodies falling bodies falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation this regulation it regulation it is it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to designate to designate the designate the european the european data european data protection data protection supervisor protection supervisor as supervisor as a as a competent a competent market competent market surveillance market surveillance authority surveillance authority for authority for them.
due to the specific to the specific nature the specific nature of specific nature of union nature of union institutions of union institutions agencies union institutions agencies and institutions agencies and bodies agencies and bodies falling and bodies falling within bodies falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation of this regulation it this regulation it is regulation it is appropriate it is appropriate to is appropriate to designate appropriate to designate the to designate the european designate the european data the european data protection european data protection supervisor data protection supervisor as protection supervisor as a supervisor as a competent as a competent market a competent market surveillance competent market surveillance authority market surveillance authority for surveillance authority for them.
this should should be be without without prejudice prejudice to to the the designation designation of of national national competent competent authorities authorities by by the the member member states.
this should be should be without be without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the designation the designation of designation of national of national competent national competent authorities competent authorities by authorities by the by the member the member states.
this should be without should be without prejudice be without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the designation to the designation of the designation of national designation of national competent of national competent authorities national competent authorities by competent authorities by the authorities by the member by the member states.
market surveillance surveillance activities activities should should not not affect affect the the ability ability of of the the supervised supervised entities entities to to carry carry out out their their tasks tasks independently independently when when such such independence independence is is required required by by union union law.
market surveillance activities surveillance activities should activities should not should not affect not affect the affect the ability the ability of ability of the of the supervised the supervised entities supervised entities to entities to carry to carry out carry out their out their tasks their tasks independently tasks independently when independently when such when such independence such independence is independence is required is required by required by union by union law.
market surveillance activities should surveillance activities should not activities should not affect should not affect the not affect the ability affect the ability of the ability of the ability of the supervised of the supervised entities the supervised entities to supervised entities to carry entities to carry out to carry out their carry out their tasks out their tasks independently their tasks independently when tasks independently when such independently when such independence when such independence is such independence is required independence is required by is required by union required by union law.
a this this regulation regulation is is without without prejudice prejudice to to the the competences competences tasks tasks powers powers and and independence independence of of relevant relevant national national public public authorities authorities or or bodies bodies which which supervise supervise the the application application of of union union law law protecting protecting fundamental fundamental rights rights including including equality equality bodies bodies and and data data protection protection authorities.
a this regulation this regulation is regulation is without is without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to the to the competences the competences tasks competences tasks powers tasks powers and powers and independence and independence of independence of relevant of relevant national relevant national public national public authorities public authorities or authorities or bodies or bodies which bodies which supervise which supervise the supervise the application the application of application of union of union law union law protecting law protecting fundamental protecting fundamental rights fundamental rights including rights including equality including equality bodies equality bodies and bodies and data and data protection data protection authorities.
a this regulation is this regulation is without regulation is without prejudice is without prejudice to without prejudice to the prejudice to the competences to the competences tasks the competences tasks powers competences tasks powers and tasks powers and independence powers and independence of and independence of relevant independence of relevant national of relevant national public relevant national public authorities national public authorities or public authorities or bodies authorities or bodies which or bodies which supervise bodies which supervise the which supervise the application supervise the application of the application of union application of union law of union law protecting union law protecting fundamental law protecting fundamental rights protecting fundamental rights including fundamental rights including equality rights including equality bodies including equality bodies and equality bodies and data bodies and data protection and data protection authorities.
where necessary necessary for for their their mandate mandate those those national national public public authorities authorities or or bodies bodies should should also also have have access access to to any any documentation documentation created created under under this this regulation.
where necessary for necessary for their for their mandate their mandate those mandate those national those national public national public authorities public authorities or authorities or bodies or bodies should bodies should also should also have also have access have access to access to any to any documentation any documentation created documentation created under created under this under this regulation.
where necessary for their necessary for their mandate for their mandate those their mandate those national mandate those national public those national public authorities national public authorities or public authorities or bodies authorities or bodies should or bodies should also bodies should also have should also have access also have access to have access to any access to any documentation to any documentation created any documentation created under documentation created under this created under this regulation.
a specific specific safeguard safeguard procedure procedure should should be be set set for for ensuring ensuring adequate adequate and and timely timely enforcement enforcement against against ai ai systems systems presenting presenting a a risk risk to to health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights.
a specific safeguard specific safeguard procedure safeguard procedure should procedure should be should be set be set for set for ensuring for ensuring adequate ensuring adequate and adequate and timely and timely enforcement timely enforcement against enforcement against ai against ai systems ai systems presenting systems presenting a presenting a risk a risk to risk to health to health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights.
a specific safeguard procedure specific safeguard procedure should safeguard procedure should be procedure should be set should be set for be set for ensuring set for ensuring adequate for ensuring adequate and ensuring adequate and timely adequate and timely enforcement and timely enforcement against timely enforcement against ai enforcement against ai systems against ai systems presenting ai systems presenting a systems presenting a risk presenting a risk to a risk to health risk to health safety to health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights.
the procedure procedure for for such such ai ai systems systems presenting presenting a a risk risk should should be be applied applied to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems presenting presenting a a risk risk prohibited prohibited systems systems which which have have been been placed placed on on the the market market put put into into service service or or used used in in violation violation of of the the prohibited prohibited practices practices laid laid down down in in this this regulation regulation and and ai ai systems systems which which have have been been made made available available in in violation violation of of the the transparency transparency requirements requirements laid laid down down in in this this regulation regulation and and present present a a risk.
the procedure for procedure for such for such ai such ai systems ai systems presenting systems presenting a presenting a risk a risk should risk should be should be applied be applied to applied to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems presenting systems presenting a presenting a risk a risk prohibited risk prohibited systems prohibited systems which systems which have which have been have been placed been placed on placed on the on the market the market put market put into put into service into service or service or used or used in used in violation in violation of violation of the of the prohibited the prohibited practices prohibited practices laid practices laid down laid down in down in this in this regulation this regulation and regulation and ai and ai systems ai systems which systems which have which have been have been made been made available made available in available in violation in violation of violation of the of the transparency the transparency requirements transparency requirements laid requirements laid down laid down in down in this in this regulation this regulation and regulation and present and present a present a risk.
the procedure for such procedure for such ai for such ai systems such ai systems presenting ai systems presenting a systems presenting a risk presenting a risk should a risk should be risk should be applied should be applied to be applied to high-risk applied to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems presenting ai systems presenting a systems presenting a risk presenting a risk prohibited a risk prohibited systems risk prohibited systems which prohibited systems which have systems which have been which have been placed have been placed on been placed on the placed on the market on the market put the market put into market put into service put into service or into service or used service or used in or used in violation used in violation of in violation of the violation of the prohibited of the prohibited practices the prohibited practices laid prohibited practices laid down practices laid down in laid down in this down in this regulation in this regulation and this regulation and ai regulation and ai systems and ai systems which ai systems which have systems which have been which have been made have been made available been made available in made available in violation available in violation of in violation of the violation of the transparency of the transparency requirements the transparency requirements laid transparency requirements laid down requirements laid down in laid down in this down in this regulation in this regulation and this regulation and present regulation and present a and present a risk.
tree..b rbek rbek en en union union legislation legislation on on financial financial services services includes includes internal internal governance governance and and risk risk management management rules rules and and requirements requirements which which are are applicable applicable to to regulated regulated financial financial institutions institutions in in the the course course of of provision provision of of those those services services including including when when they they make make use use of of ai ai systems.
tree..b rbek en rbek en union en union legislation union legislation on legislation on financial on financial services financial services includes services includes internal includes internal governance internal governance and governance and risk and risk management risk management rules management rules and rules and requirements and requirements which requirements which are which are applicable are applicable to applicable to regulated to regulated financial regulated financial institutions financial institutions in institutions in the in the course the course of course of provision of provision of provision of those of those services those services including services including when including when they when they make they make use make use of use of ai of ai systems.
tree..b rbek en union rbek en union legislation en union legislation on union legislation on financial legislation on financial services on financial services includes financial services includes internal services includes internal governance includes internal governance and internal governance and risk governance and risk management and risk management rules risk management rules and management rules and requirements rules and requirements which and requirements which are requirements which are applicable which are applicable to are applicable to regulated applicable to regulated financial to regulated financial institutions regulated financial institutions in financial institutions in the institutions in the course in the course of the course of provision course of provision of of provision of those provision of those services of those services including those services including when services including when they including when they make when they make use they make use of make use of ai use of ai systems.
in order order to to ensure ensure coherent coherent application application and and enforcement enforcement of of the the obligations obligations under under this this regulation regulation and and relevant relevant rules rules and and requirements requirements of of the the union union financial financial services services legislation legislation the the authorities authorities responsible responsible for for the the supervision supervision and and enforcement enforcement of of the the financial financial services services legislation legislation should should be be designated designated as as competent competent authorities authorities for for the the purpose purpose of of supervising supervising the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation including including for for market market surveillance surveillance activities activities as as regards regards ai ai systems systems provided provided or or used used by by regulated regulated and and supervised supervised financial financial institutions institutions unless unless member member states states decide decide to to designate designate another another authority authority to to fulfill fulfill these these market market surveillance surveillance tasks.
in order to order to ensure to ensure coherent ensure coherent application coherent application and application and enforcement and enforcement of enforcement of the of the obligations the obligations under obligations under this under this regulation this regulation and regulation and relevant and relevant rules relevant rules and rules and requirements and requirements of requirements of the of the union the union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation the legislation the authorities the authorities responsible authorities responsible for responsible for the for the supervision the supervision and supervision and enforcement and enforcement of enforcement of the of the financial the financial services financial services legislation services legislation should legislation should be should be designated be designated as designated as competent as competent authorities competent authorities for authorities for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of supervising of supervising the supervising the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation including regulation including for including for market for market surveillance market surveillance activities surveillance activities as activities as regards as regards ai regards ai systems ai systems provided systems provided or provided or used or used by used by regulated by regulated and regulated and supervised and supervised financial supervised financial institutions financial institutions unless institutions unless member unless member states member states decide states decide to decide to designate to designate another designate another authority another authority to authority to fulfill to fulfill these fulfill these market these market surveillance market surveillance tasks.
in order to ensure order to ensure coherent to ensure coherent application ensure coherent application and coherent application and enforcement application and enforcement of and enforcement of the enforcement of the obligations of the obligations under the obligations under this obligations under this regulation under this regulation and this regulation and relevant regulation and relevant rules and relevant rules and relevant rules and requirements rules and requirements of and requirements of the requirements of the union of the union financial the union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation the services legislation the authorities legislation the authorities responsible the authorities responsible for authorities responsible for the responsible for the supervision for the supervision and the supervision and enforcement supervision and enforcement of and enforcement of the enforcement of the financial of the financial services the financial services legislation financial services legislation should services legislation should be legislation should be designated should be designated as be designated as competent designated as competent authorities as competent authorities for competent authorities for the authorities for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of supervising purpose of supervising the of supervising the implementation supervising the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation including this regulation including for regulation including for market including for market surveillance for market surveillance activities market surveillance activities as surveillance activities as regards activities as regards ai as regards ai systems regards ai systems provided ai systems provided or systems provided or used provided or used by or used by regulated used by regulated and by regulated and supervised regulated and supervised financial and supervised financial institutions supervised financial institutions unless financial institutions unless member institutions unless member states unless member states decide member states decide to states decide to designate decide to designate another to designate another authority designate another authority to another authority to fulfill authority to fulfill these to fulfill these market fulfill these market surveillance these market surveillance tasks.
those competent competent authorities authorities should should have have all all powers powers under under this this regulation regulation and and regulation regulation eu eu on on market market surveillance surveillance to to enforce enforce the the requirements requirements and and obligations obligations of of this this regulation regulation including including powers powers to to carry carry our our ex ex post post market market surveillance surveillance activities activities that that can can be be integrated integrated as as appropriate appropriate into into their their existing existing supervisory supervisory mechanisms mechanisms and and procedures procedures under under the the relevant relevant union union financial financial services services legislation.
those competent authorities competent authorities should authorities should have should have all have all powers all powers under powers under this under this regulation this regulation and regulation and regulation and regulation eu regulation eu on eu on market on market surveillance market surveillance to surveillance to enforce to enforce the enforce the requirements the requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations of obligations of this of this regulation this regulation including regulation including powers including powers to powers to carry to carry our carry our ex our ex post ex post market post market surveillance market surveillance activities surveillance activities that activities that can that can be can be integrated be integrated as integrated as appropriate as appropriate into appropriate into their into their existing their existing supervisory existing supervisory mechanisms supervisory mechanisms and mechanisms and procedures and procedures under procedures under the under the relevant the relevant union relevant union financial union financial services financial services legislation.
those competent authorities should competent authorities should have authorities should have all should have all powers have all powers under all powers under this powers under this regulation under this regulation and this regulation and regulation regulation and regulation eu and regulation eu on regulation eu on market eu on market surveillance on market surveillance to market surveillance to enforce surveillance to enforce the to enforce the requirements enforce the requirements and the requirements and obligations requirements and obligations of and obligations of this obligations of this regulation of this regulation including this regulation including powers regulation including powers to including powers to carry powers to carry our to carry our ex carry our ex post our ex post market ex post market surveillance post market surveillance activities market surveillance activities that surveillance activities that can activities that can be that can be integrated can be integrated as be integrated as appropriate integrated as appropriate into as appropriate into their appropriate into their existing into their existing supervisory their existing supervisory mechanisms existing supervisory mechanisms and supervisory mechanisms and procedures mechanisms and procedures under and procedures under the procedures under the relevant under the relevant union the relevant union financial relevant union financial services union financial services legislation.
it is is appropriate appropriate to to envisage envisage that that when when acting acting as as market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities under under this this regulation regulation the the national national authorities authorities responsible responsible for for the the supervision supervision of of credit credit institutions institutions regulated regulated under under directive directive eu eu which which are are participating participating in in the the single single supervisory supervisory mechanism mechanism ssm ssm established established by by council council regulation regulation no no should should report report without without delay delay to to the the european european central central bank bank any any information information identified identified in in the the course course of of their their market market surveillance surveillance activities activities that that may may be be of of potential potential interest interest for for the the european european central central bank’s bank’s prudential prudential supervisory supervisory tasks tasks as as specified specified in in that that regulation.
it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to envisage to envisage that envisage that when that when acting when acting as acting as market as market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities under authorities under this under this regulation this regulation the regulation the national the national authorities national authorities responsible authorities responsible for responsible for the for the supervision the supervision of supervision of credit of credit institutions credit institutions regulated institutions regulated under regulated under directive under directive eu directive eu which eu which are which are participating are participating in participating in the in the single the single supervisory single supervisory mechanism supervisory mechanism ssm mechanism ssm established ssm established by established by council by council regulation council regulation no regulation no should no should report should report without report without delay without delay to delay to the to the european the european central european central bank central bank any bank any information any information identified information identified in identified in the in the course the course of course of their of their market their market surveillance market surveillance activities surveillance activities that activities that may that may be may be of be of potential of potential interest potential interest for interest for the for the european the european central european central bank’s central bank’s prudential bank’s prudential supervisory prudential supervisory tasks supervisory tasks as tasks as specified as specified in specified in that in that regulation.
it is appropriate to is appropriate to envisage appropriate to envisage that to envisage that when envisage that when acting that when acting as when acting as market acting as market surveillance as market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities under surveillance authorities under this authorities under this regulation under this regulation the this regulation the national regulation the national authorities the national authorities responsible national authorities responsible for authorities responsible for the responsible for the supervision for the supervision of the supervision of credit supervision of credit institutions of credit institutions regulated credit institutions regulated under institutions regulated under directive regulated under directive eu under directive eu which directive eu which are eu which are participating which are participating in are participating in the participating in the single in the single supervisory the single supervisory mechanism single supervisory mechanism ssm supervisory mechanism ssm established mechanism ssm established by ssm established by council established by council regulation by council regulation no council regulation no should regulation no should report no should report without should report without delay report without delay to without delay to the delay to the european to the european central the european central bank european central bank any central bank any information bank any information identified any information identified in information identified in the identified in the course in the course of the course of their course of their market of their market surveillance their market surveillance activities market surveillance activities that surveillance activities that may activities that may be that may be of may be of potential be of potential interest of potential interest for potential interest for the interest for the european for the european central the european central bank’s european central bank’s prudential central bank’s prudential supervisory bank’s prudential supervisory tasks prudential supervisory tasks as supervisory tasks as specified tasks as specified in as specified in that specified in that regulation.
to further further enhance enhance the the consistency consistency between between this this regulation regulation and and the the rules rules applicable applicable to to credit credit institutions institutions regulated regulated under under directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council it it is is also also appropriate appropriate to to integrate integrate some some of of the the providers’ providers’ procedural procedural obligations obligations in in relation relation to to risk risk management management post post marketing marketing monitoring monitoring and and documentation documentation into into the the existing existing obligations obligations and and procedures procedures under under directive directive eu.
to further enhance further enhance the enhance the consistency the consistency between consistency between this between this regulation this regulation and regulation and the and the rules the rules applicable rules applicable to applicable to credit to credit institutions credit institutions regulated institutions regulated under regulated under directive under directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council it council it is it is also is also appropriate also appropriate to appropriate to integrate to integrate some integrate some of some of the of the providers’ the providers’ procedural providers’ procedural obligations procedural obligations in obligations in relation in relation to relation to risk to risk management risk management post management post marketing post marketing monitoring marketing monitoring and monitoring and documentation and documentation into documentation into the into the existing the existing obligations existing obligations and obligations and procedures and procedures under procedures under directive under directive eu.
to further enhance the further enhance the consistency enhance the consistency between the consistency between this consistency between this regulation between this regulation and this regulation and the regulation and the rules and the rules applicable the rules applicable to rules applicable to credit applicable to credit institutions to credit institutions regulated credit institutions regulated under institutions regulated under directive regulated under directive eu under directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council it the council it is council it is also it is also appropriate is also appropriate to also appropriate to integrate appropriate to integrate some to integrate some of integrate some of the some of the providers’ of the providers’ procedural the providers’ procedural obligations providers’ procedural obligations in procedural obligations in relation obligations in relation to in relation to risk relation to risk management to risk management post risk management post marketing management post marketing monitoring post marketing monitoring and marketing monitoring and documentation monitoring and documentation into and documentation into the documentation into the existing into the existing obligations the existing obligations and existing obligations and procedures obligations and procedures under and procedures under directive procedures under directive eu.
in order order to to avoid avoid overlaps overlaps limited limited derogations derogations should should also also be be envisaged envisaged in in relation relation to to the the quality quality management management system system of of providers providers and and the the monitoring monitoring obligation obligation placed placed on on users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems to to the the extent extent that that these these apply apply to to credit credit institutions institutions regulated regulated by by directive directive eu.
in order to order to avoid to avoid overlaps avoid overlaps limited overlaps limited derogations limited derogations should derogations should also should also be also be envisaged be envisaged in envisaged in relation in relation to relation to the to the quality the quality management quality management system management system of system of providers of providers and providers and the and the monitoring the monitoring obligation monitoring obligation placed obligation placed on placed on users on users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems to systems to the to the extent the extent that extent that these that these apply these apply to apply to credit to credit institutions credit institutions regulated institutions regulated by regulated by directive by directive eu.
in order to avoid order to avoid overlaps to avoid overlaps limited avoid overlaps limited derogations overlaps limited derogations should limited derogations should also derogations should also be should also be envisaged also be envisaged in be envisaged in relation envisaged in relation to in relation to the relation to the quality to the quality management the quality management system quality management system of management system of providers system of providers and of providers and the providers and the monitoring and the monitoring obligation the monitoring obligation placed monitoring obligation placed on obligation placed on users placed on users of on users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems to ai systems to the systems to the extent to the extent that the extent that these extent that these apply that these apply to these apply to credit apply to credit institutions to credit institutions regulated credit institutions regulated by institutions regulated by directive regulated by directive eu.
the same same regime regime should should apply apply to to insurance insurance and and re-insurance re-insurance undertakings undertakings and and insurance insurance holding holding companies companies under under directive directive eu eu solvency solvency ii ii directive directive eu eu of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of june june on on access access to to the the activity activity of of credit credit institutions institutions and and the the prudential prudential supervision supervision of of credit credit institutions institutions and and investment investment firms firms amending amending directive directive ec ec and and repealing repealing directives directives ec ec and and ec ec oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
the same regime same regime should regime should apply should apply to apply to insurance to insurance and insurance and re-insurance and re-insurance undertakings re-insurance undertakings and undertakings and insurance and insurance holding insurance holding companies holding companies under companies under directive under directive eu directive eu solvency eu solvency ii solvency ii directive ii directive eu directive eu of eu of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of june of june on june on access on access to access to the to the activity the activity of activity of credit of credit institutions credit institutions and institutions and the and the prudential the prudential supervision prudential supervision of supervision of credit of credit institutions credit institutions and institutions and investment and investment firms investment firms amending firms amending directive amending directive ec directive ec and ec and repealing and repealing directives repealing directives ec directives ec and ec and ec and ec oj ec oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
the same regime should same regime should apply regime should apply to should apply to insurance apply to insurance and to insurance and re-insurance insurance and re-insurance undertakings and re-insurance undertakings and re-insurance undertakings and insurance undertakings and insurance holding and insurance holding companies insurance holding companies under holding companies under directive companies under directive eu under directive eu solvency directive eu solvency ii eu solvency ii directive solvency ii directive eu ii directive eu of directive eu of the eu of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of june council of june on of june on access june on access to on access to the access to the activity to the activity of the activity of credit activity of credit institutions of credit institutions and credit institutions and the institutions and the prudential and the prudential supervision the prudential supervision of prudential supervision of credit supervision of credit institutions of credit institutions and credit institutions and investment institutions and investment firms and investment firms amending investment firms amending directive firms amending directive ec amending directive ec and directive ec and repealing ec and repealing directives and repealing directives ec repealing directives ec and directives ec and ec ec and ec oj and ec oj l ec oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en and and the the insurance insurance intermediaries intermediaries under under directive directive eu eu and and other other types types of of financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes established established pursuant pursuant to to the the relevant relevant union union financial financial services services legislation legislation to to ensure ensure consistency consistency and and equal equal treatment treatment in in the the financial financial sector.
tree..b rbek en rbek en and en and the and the insurance the insurance intermediaries insurance intermediaries under intermediaries under directive under directive eu directive eu and eu and other and other types other types of types of financial of financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding internal regarding internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes established processes established pursuant established pursuant to pursuant to the to the relevant the relevant union relevant union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation to legislation to ensure to ensure consistency ensure consistency and consistency and equal and equal treatment equal treatment in treatment in the in the financial the financial sector.
tree..b rbek en and rbek en and the en and the insurance and the insurance intermediaries the insurance intermediaries under insurance intermediaries under directive intermediaries under directive eu under directive eu and directive eu and other eu and other types and other types of other types of financial types of financial institutions of financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding internal requirements regarding internal governance regarding internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes established or processes established pursuant processes established pursuant to established pursuant to the pursuant to the relevant to the relevant union the relevant union financial relevant union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation to services legislation to ensure legislation to ensure consistency to ensure consistency and ensure consistency and equal consistency and equal treatment and equal treatment in equal treatment in the treatment in the financial in the financial sector.
the development development of of ai ai systems systems other other than than high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems in in accordance accordance with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation may may lead lead to to a a larger larger uptake uptake of of trustworthy trustworthy artificial artificial intelligence intelligence in in the the union.
the development of development of ai of ai systems ai systems other systems other than other than high-risk than high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems in systems in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation may regulation may lead may lead to lead to a to a larger a larger uptake larger uptake of uptake of trustworthy of trustworthy artificial trustworthy artificial intelligence artificial intelligence in intelligence in the in the union.
the development of ai development of ai systems of ai systems other ai systems other than systems other than high-risk other than high-risk ai than high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems in ai systems in accordance systems in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation may this regulation may lead regulation may lead to may lead to a lead to a larger to a larger uptake a larger uptake of larger uptake of trustworthy uptake of trustworthy artificial of trustworthy artificial intelligence trustworthy artificial intelligence in artificial intelligence in the intelligence in the union.
providers of of non-high-risk non-high-risk ai ai systems systems should should be be encouraged encouraged to to create create codes codes of of conduct conduct intended intended to to foster foster the the voluntary voluntary application application of of the the requirements requirements applicable applicable to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems adapted adapted in in light light of of the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the systems systems and and the the lower lower risk risk involved.
providers of non-high-risk of non-high-risk ai non-high-risk ai systems ai systems should systems should be should be encouraged be encouraged to encouraged to create to create codes create codes of codes of conduct of conduct intended conduct intended to intended to foster to foster the foster the voluntary the voluntary application voluntary application of application of the of the requirements the requirements applicable requirements applicable to applicable to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems adapted systems adapted in adapted in light in light of light of the of the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the systems the systems and systems and the and the lower the lower risk lower risk involved.
providers of non-high-risk ai of non-high-risk ai systems non-high-risk ai systems should ai systems should be systems should be encouraged should be encouraged to be encouraged to create encouraged to create codes to create codes of create codes of conduct codes of conduct intended of conduct intended to conduct intended to foster intended to foster the to foster the voluntary foster the voluntary application the voluntary application of voluntary application of the application of the requirements of the requirements applicable the requirements applicable to requirements applicable to high-risk applicable to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems adapted ai systems adapted in systems adapted in light adapted in light of in light of the light of the intended of the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the systems of the systems and the systems and the systems and the lower and the lower risk the lower risk involved.
providers should should also also be be encouraged encouraged to to apply apply on on a a voluntary voluntary basis basis additional additional requirements requirements related related for for example example to to environmental environmental sustainability sustainability accessibility accessibility to to persons persons with with disability disability stakeholders’ stakeholders’ participation participation in in the the design design and and development development of of ai ai systems systems and and diversity diversity of of the the development development teams.
providers should also should also be also be encouraged be encouraged to encouraged to apply to apply on apply on a on a voluntary a voluntary basis voluntary basis additional basis additional requirements additional requirements related requirements related for related for example for example to example to environmental to environmental sustainability environmental sustainability accessibility sustainability accessibility to accessibility to persons to persons with persons with disability with disability stakeholders’ disability stakeholders’ participation stakeholders’ participation in participation in the in the design the design and design and development and development of development of ai of ai systems ai systems and systems and diversity and diversity of diversity of the of the development the development teams.
providers should also be should also be encouraged also be encouraged to be encouraged to apply encouraged to apply on to apply on a apply on a voluntary on a voluntary basis a voluntary basis additional voluntary basis additional requirements basis additional requirements related additional requirements related for requirements related for example related for example to for example to environmental example to environmental sustainability to environmental sustainability accessibility environmental sustainability accessibility to sustainability accessibility to persons accessibility to persons with to persons with disability persons with disability stakeholders’ with disability stakeholders’ participation disability stakeholders’ participation in stakeholders’ participation in the participation in the design in the design and the design and development design and development of and development of ai development of ai systems of ai systems and ai systems and diversity systems and diversity of and diversity of the diversity of the development of the development teams.
the commission commission may may develop develop initiatives initiatives including including of of a a sectorial sectorial nature nature to to facilitate facilitate the the lowering lowering of of technical technical barriers barriers hindering hindering cross-border cross-border exchange exchange of of data data for for ai ai development development including including on on data data access access infrastructure infrastructure semantic semantic and and technical technical interoperability interoperability of of different different types types of of data.
the commission may commission may develop may develop initiatives develop initiatives including initiatives including of including of a of a sectorial a sectorial nature sectorial nature to nature to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the lowering the lowering of lowering of technical of technical barriers technical barriers hindering barriers hindering cross-border hindering cross-border exchange cross-border exchange of exchange of data of data for data for ai for ai development ai development including development including on including on data on data access data access infrastructure access infrastructure semantic infrastructure semantic and semantic and technical and technical interoperability technical interoperability of interoperability of different of different types different types of types of data.
the commission may develop commission may develop initiatives may develop initiatives including develop initiatives including of initiatives including of a including of a sectorial of a sectorial nature a sectorial nature to sectorial nature to facilitate nature to facilitate the to facilitate the lowering facilitate the lowering of the lowering of technical lowering of technical barriers of technical barriers hindering technical barriers hindering cross-border barriers hindering cross-border exchange hindering cross-border exchange of cross-border exchange of data exchange of data for of data for ai data for ai development for ai development including ai development including on development including on data including on data access on data access infrastructure data access infrastructure semantic access infrastructure semantic and infrastructure semantic and technical semantic and technical interoperability and technical interoperability of technical interoperability of different interoperability of different types of different types of different types of data.
it is is important important that that ai ai systems systems related related to to products products that that are are not not high-risk high-risk in in accordance accordance with with this this regulation regulation and and thus thus are are not not required required to to comply comply with with the the requirements requirements set set out out herein herein are are nevertheless nevertheless safe safe when when placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service.
it is important is important that important that ai that ai systems ai systems related systems related to related to products to products that products that are that are not are not high-risk not high-risk in high-risk in accordance in accordance with accordance with this with this regulation this regulation and regulation and thus and thus are thus are not are not required not required to required to comply to comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out herein out herein are herein are nevertheless are nevertheless safe nevertheless safe when safe when placed when placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service.
it is important that is important that ai important that ai systems that ai systems related ai systems related to systems related to products related to products that to products that are products that are not that are not high-risk are not high-risk in not high-risk in accordance high-risk in accordance with in accordance with this accordance with this regulation with this regulation and this regulation and thus regulation and thus are and thus are not thus are not required are not required to not required to comply required to comply with to comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out herein set out herein are out herein are nevertheless herein are nevertheless safe are nevertheless safe when nevertheless safe when placed safe when placed on when placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service.
to contribute contribute to to this this objective objective the the directive directive ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council would would apply apply as as a a safety safety net.
to contribute to contribute to this to this objective this objective the objective the directive the directive ec directive ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council would council would apply would apply as apply as a as a safety a safety net.
to contribute to this contribute to this objective to this objective the this objective the directive objective the directive ec the directive ec of directive ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council would the council would apply council would apply as would apply as a apply as a safety as a safety net.
in order order to to ensure ensure trustful trustful and and constructive constructive cooperation cooperation of of competent competent authorities authorities on on union union and and national national level level all all parties parties involved involved in in the the application application of of this this regulation regulation should should respect respect the the confidentiality confidentiality of of information information and and data data obtained obtained in in carrying carrying out out their their tasks tasks in in accordance accordance with with union union or or national national law.
in order to order to ensure to ensure trustful ensure trustful and trustful and constructive and constructive cooperation constructive cooperation of cooperation of competent of competent authorities competent authorities on authorities on union on union and union and national and national level national level all level all parties all parties involved parties involved in involved in the in the application the application of application of this of this regulation this regulation should regulation should respect should respect the respect the confidentiality the confidentiality of confidentiality of information of information and information and data and data obtained data obtained in obtained in carrying in carrying out carrying out their out their tasks their tasks in tasks in accordance in accordance with accordance with union with union or union or national or national law.
in order to ensure order to ensure trustful to ensure trustful and ensure trustful and constructive trustful and constructive cooperation and constructive cooperation of constructive cooperation of competent cooperation of competent authorities of competent authorities on competent authorities on union authorities on union and on union and national union and national level and national level all national level all parties level all parties involved all parties involved in parties involved in the involved in the application in the application of the application of this application of this regulation of this regulation should this regulation should respect regulation should respect the should respect the confidentiality respect the confidentiality of the confidentiality of information confidentiality of information and of information and data information and data obtained and data obtained in data obtained in carrying obtained in carrying out in carrying out their carrying out their tasks out their tasks in their tasks in accordance tasks in accordance with in accordance with union accordance with union or with union or national union or national law.
directive ec ec of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of december december on on general general product product safety safety oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
directive ec of ec of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of december of december on december on general on general product general product safety product safety oj safety oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
directive ec of the ec of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of december council of december on of december on general december on general product on general product safety general product safety oj product safety oj l safety oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en member member states states should should take take all all necessary necessary measures measures to to ensure ensure that that the the provisions provisions of of this this regulation regulation are are implemented implemented including including by by laying laying down down effective effective proportionate proportionate and and dissuasive dissuasive penalties penalties for for their their infringement infringement and and in in respect respect of of the the ne ne bis bis in in idem idem principle.
tree..b rbek en rbek en member en member states member states should states should take should take all take all necessary all necessary measures necessary measures to measures to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the provisions the provisions of provisions of this of this regulation this regulation are regulation are implemented are implemented including implemented including by including by laying by laying down laying down effective down effective proportionate effective proportionate and proportionate and dissuasive and dissuasive penalties dissuasive penalties for penalties for their for their infringement their infringement and infringement and in and in respect in respect of respect of the of the ne the ne bis ne bis in bis in idem in idem principle.
tree..b rbek en member rbek en member states en member states should member states should take states should take all should take all necessary take all necessary measures all necessary measures to necessary measures to ensure measures to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the provisions that the provisions of the provisions of this provisions of this regulation of this regulation are this regulation are implemented regulation are implemented including are implemented including by implemented including by laying including by laying down by laying down effective laying down effective proportionate down effective proportionate and effective proportionate and dissuasive proportionate and dissuasive penalties and dissuasive penalties for dissuasive penalties for their penalties for their infringement for their infringement and their infringement and in infringement and in respect and in respect of in respect of the respect of the ne of the ne bis the ne bis in ne bis in idem bis in idem principle.
for certain certain specific specific infringements infringements member member states states should should take take into into account account the the margins margins and and criteria criteria set set out out in in this this regulation.
for certain specific certain specific infringements specific infringements member infringements member states member states should states should take should take into take into account into account the account the margins the margins and margins and criteria and criteria set criteria set out set out in out in this in this regulation.
for certain specific infringements certain specific infringements member specific infringements member states infringements member states should member states should take states should take into should take into account take into account the into account the margins account the margins and the margins and criteria margins and criteria set and criteria set out criteria set out in set out in this out in this regulation.
the european european data data protection protection supervisor supervisor should should have have the the power power to to impose impose fines fines on on union union institutions institutions agencies agencies and and bodies bodies falling falling within within the the scope scope of of this this regulation.
the european data european data protection data protection supervisor protection supervisor should supervisor should have should have the have the power the power to power to impose to impose fines impose fines on fines on union on union institutions union institutions agencies institutions agencies and agencies and bodies and bodies falling bodies falling within falling within the within the scope the scope of scope of this of this regulation.
the european data protection european data protection supervisor data protection supervisor should protection supervisor should have supervisor should have the should have the power have the power to the power to impose power to impose fines to impose fines on impose fines on union fines on union institutions on union institutions agencies union institutions agencies and institutions agencies and bodies agencies and bodies falling and bodies falling within bodies falling within the falling within the scope within the scope of the scope of this scope of this regulation.
in order order to to ensure ensure that that the the regulatory regulatory framework framework can can be be adapted adapted where where necessary necessary the the power power to to adopt adopt acts acts in in accordance accordance with with article article tfeu tfeu should should be be delegated delegated to to the the commission commission to to amend amend the the union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation listed listed in in annex annex ii ii the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems listed listed in in annex annex iii iii the the provisions provisions regarding regarding technical technical documentation documentation listed listed in in annex annex iv iv the the content content of of the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity in in annex annex v v the the provisions provisions regarding regarding the the conformity conformity assessment assessment procedures procedures in in annex annex vi vi and and vii vii and and the the provisions provisions establishing establishing the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems to to which which the the conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure based based on on assessment assessment of of the the quality quality management management system system and and assessment assessment of of the the technical technical documentation documentation should should apply.
in order to order to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the regulatory the regulatory framework regulatory framework can framework can be can be adapted be adapted where adapted where necessary where necessary the necessary the power the power to power to adopt to adopt acts adopt acts in acts in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article tfeu article tfeu should tfeu should be should be delegated be delegated to delegated to the to the commission the commission to commission to amend to amend the amend the union the union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation listed legislation listed in listed in annex in annex ii annex ii the ii the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems listed systems listed in listed in annex in annex iii annex iii the iii the provisions the provisions regarding provisions regarding technical regarding technical documentation technical documentation listed documentation listed in listed in annex in annex iv annex iv the iv the content the content of content of the of the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity in conformity in annex in annex v annex v the v the provisions the provisions regarding provisions regarding the regarding the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment procedures assessment procedures in procedures in annex in annex vi annex vi and vi and vii and vii and vii and the and the provisions the provisions establishing provisions establishing the establishing the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems to systems to which to which the which the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure based procedure based on based on assessment on assessment of assessment of the of the quality the quality management quality management system management system and system and assessment and assessment of assessment of the of the technical the technical documentation technical documentation should documentation should apply.
in order to ensure order to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the regulatory that the regulatory framework the regulatory framework can regulatory framework can be framework can be adapted can be adapted where be adapted where necessary adapted where necessary the where necessary the power necessary the power to the power to adopt power to adopt acts to adopt acts in adopt acts in accordance acts in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article tfeu with article tfeu should article tfeu should be tfeu should be delegated should be delegated to be delegated to the delegated to the commission to the commission to the commission to amend commission to amend the to amend the union amend the union harmonisation the union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation listed harmonisation legislation listed in legislation listed in annex listed in annex ii in annex ii the annex ii the high-risk ii the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems listed ai systems listed in systems listed in annex listed in annex iii in annex iii the annex iii the provisions iii the provisions regarding the provisions regarding technical provisions regarding technical documentation regarding technical documentation listed technical documentation listed in documentation listed in annex listed in annex iv in annex iv the annex iv the content iv the content of the content of the content of the eu of the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity in of conformity in annex conformity in annex v in annex v the annex v the provisions v the provisions regarding the provisions regarding the provisions regarding the conformity regarding the conformity assessment the conformity assessment procedures conformity assessment procedures in assessment procedures in annex procedures in annex vi in annex vi and annex vi and vii vi and vii and and vii and the vii and the provisions and the provisions establishing the provisions establishing the provisions establishing the high-risk establishing the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems to ai systems to which systems to which the to which the conformity which the conformity assessment the conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure based assessment procedure based on procedure based on assessment based on assessment of on assessment of the assessment of the quality of the quality management the quality management system quality management system and management system and assessment system and assessment of and assessment of the assessment of the technical of the technical documentation the technical documentation should technical documentation should apply.
it is is of of particular particular importance importance that that the the commission commission carry carry out out appropriate appropriate consultations consultations during during its its preparatory preparatory work work including including at at expert expert level level and and that that those those consultations consultations be be conducted conducted in in accordance accordance with with the the principles principles laid laid down down in in the the interinstitutional interinstitutional agreement agreement of of april april on on better better law-making.
it is of is of particular of particular importance particular importance that importance that the that the commission the commission carry commission carry out carry out appropriate out appropriate consultations appropriate consultations during consultations during its during its preparatory its preparatory work preparatory work including work including at including at expert at expert level expert level and level and that and that those that those consultations those consultations be consultations be conducted be conducted in conducted in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the principles the principles laid principles laid down laid down in down in the in the interinstitutional the interinstitutional agreement interinstitutional agreement of agreement of april of april on april on better on better law-making.
it is of particular is of particular importance of particular importance that particular importance that the importance that the commission that the commission carry the commission carry out commission carry out appropriate carry out appropriate consultations out appropriate consultations during appropriate consultations during its consultations during its preparatory during its preparatory work its preparatory work including preparatory work including at work including at expert including at expert level at expert level and expert level and that level and that those and that those consultations that those consultations be those consultations be conducted consultations be conducted in be conducted in accordance conducted in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the principles with the principles laid the principles laid down principles laid down in laid down in the down in the interinstitutional in the interinstitutional agreement the interinstitutional agreement of interinstitutional agreement of april agreement of april on of april on better april on better law-making.
in particular particular to to ensure ensure equal equal participation participation in in the the preparation preparation of of delegated delegated acts acts the the european european parliament parliament and and the the council council receive receive all all documents documents at at the the same same time time as as member member states’ states’ experts experts and and their their experts experts systematically systematically have have access access to to meetings meetings of of commission commission expert expert groups groups dealing dealing with with the the preparation preparation of of delegated delegated acts.
in particular to particular to ensure to ensure equal ensure equal participation equal participation in participation in the in the preparation the preparation of preparation of delegated of delegated acts delegated acts the acts the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and the and the council the council receive council receive all receive all documents all documents at documents at the at the same the same time same time as time as member as member states’ member states’ experts states’ experts and experts and their and their experts their experts systematically experts systematically have systematically have access have access to access to meetings to meetings of meetings of commission of commission expert commission expert groups expert groups dealing groups dealing with dealing with the with the preparation the preparation of preparation of delegated of delegated acts.
in particular to ensure particular to ensure equal to ensure equal participation ensure equal participation in equal participation in the participation in the preparation in the preparation of the preparation of delegated preparation of delegated acts of delegated acts the delegated acts the european acts the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and the parliament and the council and the council receive the council receive all council receive all documents receive all documents at all documents at the documents at the same at the same time the same time as same time as member time as member states’ as member states’ experts member states’ experts and states’ experts and their experts and their experts and their experts systematically their experts systematically have experts systematically have access systematically have access to have access to meetings access to meetings of to meetings of commission meetings of commission expert of commission expert groups commission expert groups dealing expert groups dealing with groups dealing with the dealing with the preparation with the preparation of the preparation of delegated preparation of delegated acts.
such consultations consultations and and advisory advisory support support should should also also be be carried carried out out in in the the framework framework of of the the activities activities of of the the ai ai board board and and its its subgroups.
such consultations and consultations and advisory and advisory support advisory support should support should also should also be also be carried be carried out carried out in out in the in the framework the framework of framework of the of the activities the activities of activities of the of the ai the ai board ai board and board and its and its subgroups.
such consultations and advisory consultations and advisory support and advisory support should advisory support should also support should also be should also be carried also be carried out be carried out in carried out in the out in the framework in the framework of the framework of the framework of the activities of the activities of the activities of the activities of the ai of the ai board the ai board and ai board and its board and its subgroups.
oj l l .. .. p. p. .
oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en in in order order to to ensure ensure uniform uniform conditions conditions for for the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation implementing implementing powers powers should should be be conferred conferred on on the the commission.
tree..b rbek en rbek en in en in order in order to order to ensure to ensure uniform ensure uniform conditions uniform conditions for conditions for the for the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation implementing regulation implementing powers implementing powers should powers should be should be conferred be conferred on conferred on the on the commission.
tree..b rbek en in rbek en in order en in order to in order to ensure order to ensure uniform to ensure uniform conditions ensure uniform conditions for uniform conditions for the conditions for the implementation for the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation implementing this regulation implementing powers regulation implementing powers should implementing powers should be powers should be conferred should be conferred on be conferred on the conferred on the commission.
those powers powers should should be be exercised exercised in in accordance accordance with with regulation regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council.
those powers should powers should be should be exercised be exercised in exercised in accordance in accordance with accordance with regulation with regulation eu regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council.
those powers should be powers should be exercised should be exercised in be exercised in accordance exercised in accordance with in accordance with regulation accordance with regulation eu with regulation eu no regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council.
it is is of of particular particular importance importance that that in in accordance accordance with with the the principles principles laid laid down down in in the the interinstitutional interinstitutional agreement agreement of of april april on on better better law-making law-making whenever whenever broader broader expertise expertise is is needed needed in in the the early early preparation preparation of of draft draft implementing implementing acts acts the the commission commission makes makes use use of of expert expert groups groups consults consults targeted targeted stakeholders stakeholders or or carries carries out out public public consultations consultations as as appropriate.
it is of is of particular of particular importance particular importance that importance that in that in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the principles the principles laid principles laid down laid down in down in the in the interinstitutional the interinstitutional agreement interinstitutional agreement of agreement of april of april on april on better on better law-making better law-making whenever law-making whenever broader whenever broader expertise broader expertise is expertise is needed is needed in needed in the in the early the early preparation early preparation of preparation of draft of draft implementing draft implementing acts implementing acts the acts the commission the commission makes commission makes use makes use of use of expert of expert groups expert groups consults groups consults targeted consults targeted stakeholders targeted stakeholders or stakeholders or carries or carries out carries out public out public consultations public consultations as consultations as appropriate.
it is of particular is of particular importance of particular importance that particular importance that in importance that in accordance that in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the principles with the principles laid the principles laid down principles laid down in laid down in the down in the interinstitutional in the interinstitutional agreement the interinstitutional agreement of interinstitutional agreement of april agreement of april on of april on better april on better law-making on better law-making whenever better law-making whenever broader law-making whenever broader expertise whenever broader expertise is broader expertise is needed expertise is needed in is needed in the needed in the early in the early preparation the early preparation of early preparation of draft preparation of draft implementing of draft implementing acts draft implementing acts the implementing acts the commission acts the commission makes the commission makes use commission makes use of makes use of expert use of expert groups of expert groups consults expert groups consults targeted groups consults targeted stakeholders consults targeted stakeholders or targeted stakeholders or carries stakeholders or carries out or carries out public carries out public consultations out public consultations as public consultations as appropriate.
such consultations consultations and and advisory advisory support support should should also also be be carried carried out out in in the the framework framework of of the the activities activities of of the the ai ai board board and and its its subgroups subgroups including including the the preparation preparation of of implementing implementing acts acts in in relation relation to to articles articles b b and and .
such consultations and consultations and advisory and advisory support advisory support should support should also should also be also be carried be carried out carried out in out in the in the framework the framework of framework of the of the activities the activities of activities of the of the ai the ai board ai board and board and its and its subgroups its subgroups including subgroups including the including the preparation the preparation of preparation of implementing of implementing acts implementing acts in acts in relation in relation to relation to articles to articles b articles b and b and .
such consultations and advisory consultations and advisory support and advisory support should advisory support should also support should also be should also be carried also be carried out be carried out in carried out in the out in the framework in the framework of the framework of the framework of the activities of the activities of the activities of the activities of the ai of the ai board the ai board and ai board and its board and its subgroups and its subgroups including its subgroups including the subgroups including the preparation including the preparation of the preparation of implementing preparation of implementing acts of implementing acts in implementing acts in relation acts in relation to in relation to articles relation to articles b to articles b and articles b and .
since the the objective objective of of this this regulation regulation cannot cannot be be sufficiently sufficiently achieved achieved by by the the member member states states and and can can rather rather by by reason reason of of the the scale scale or or effects effects of of the the action action be be better better achieved achieved at at union union level level the the union union may may adopt adopt measures measures in in accordance accordance with with the the principle principle of of subsidiarity subsidiarity as as set set out out in in article article teu.
since the objective the objective of objective of this of this regulation this regulation cannot regulation cannot be cannot be sufficiently be sufficiently achieved sufficiently achieved by achieved by the by the member the member states member states and states and can and can rather can rather by rather by reason by reason of reason of the of the scale the scale or scale or effects or effects of effects of the of the action the action be action be better be better achieved better achieved at achieved at union at union level union level the level the union the union may union may adopt may adopt measures adopt measures in measures in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the principle the principle of principle of subsidiarity of subsidiarity as subsidiarity as set as set out set out in out in article in article teu.
since the objective of the objective of this objective of this regulation of this regulation cannot this regulation cannot be regulation cannot be sufficiently cannot be sufficiently achieved be sufficiently achieved by sufficiently achieved by the achieved by the member by the member states the member states and member states and can states and can rather and can rather by can rather by reason rather by reason of by reason of the reason of the scale of the scale or the scale or effects scale or effects of or effects of the effects of the action of the action be the action be better action be better achieved be better achieved at better achieved at union achieved at union level at union level the union level the union level the union may the union may adopt union may adopt measures may adopt measures in adopt measures in accordance measures in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the principle with the principle of the principle of subsidiarity principle of subsidiarity as of subsidiarity as set subsidiarity as set out as set out in set out in article out in article teu.
in accordance accordance with with the the principle principle of of proportionality proportionality as as set set out out in in that that article article this this regulation regulation does does not not go go beyond beyond what what is is necessary necessary in in order order to to achieve achieve that that objective.
in accordance with accordance with the with the principle the principle of principle of proportionality of proportionality as proportionality as set as set out set out in out in that in that article that article this article this regulation this regulation does regulation does not does not go not go beyond go beyond what beyond what is what is necessary is necessary in necessary in order in order to order to achieve to achieve that achieve that objective.
in accordance with the accordance with the principle with the principle of the principle of proportionality principle of proportionality as of proportionality as set proportionality as set out as set out in set out in that out in that article in that article this that article this regulation article this regulation does this regulation does not regulation does not go does not go beyond not go beyond what go beyond what is beyond what is necessary what is necessary in is necessary in order necessary in order to in order to achieve order to achieve that to achieve that objective.
a in in order order to to ensure ensure legal legal certainty certainty ensure ensure an an appropriate appropriate adaptation adaptation period period for for operators operators and and avoid avoid disruption disruption to to the the market market including including by by ensuring ensuring continuity continuity of of the the use use of of ai ai systems systems it it is is appropriate appropriate that that this this regulation regulation applies applies to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that have have been been placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service before before the the general general date date of of application application thereof thereof only only if if from from that that date date those those systems systems are are subject subject to to significant significant changes changes in in their their design design or or intended intended purpose.
a in order in order to order to ensure to ensure legal ensure legal certainty legal certainty ensure certainty ensure an ensure an appropriate an appropriate adaptation appropriate adaptation period adaptation period for period for operators for operators and operators and avoid and avoid disruption avoid disruption to disruption to the to the market the market including market including by including by ensuring by ensuring continuity ensuring continuity of continuity of the of the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems it systems it is it is appropriate is appropriate that appropriate that this that this regulation this regulation applies regulation applies to applies to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that have that have been have been placed been placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service before service before the before the general the general date general date of date of application of application thereof application thereof only thereof only if only if from if from that from that date that date those date those systems those systems are systems are subject are subject to subject to significant to significant changes significant changes in changes in their in their design their design or design or intended or intended purpose.
a in order to in order to ensure order to ensure legal to ensure legal certainty ensure legal certainty ensure legal certainty ensure an certainty ensure an appropriate ensure an appropriate adaptation an appropriate adaptation period appropriate adaptation period for adaptation period for operators period for operators and for operators and avoid operators and avoid disruption and avoid disruption to avoid disruption to the disruption to the market to the market including the market including by market including by ensuring including by ensuring continuity by ensuring continuity of ensuring continuity of the continuity of the use of the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems it ai systems it is systems it is appropriate it is appropriate that is appropriate that this appropriate that this regulation that this regulation applies this regulation applies to regulation applies to the applies to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that have systems that have been that have been placed have been placed on been placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service before into service before the service before the general before the general date the general date of general date of application date of application thereof of application thereof only application thereof only if thereof only if from only if from that if from that date from that date those that date those systems date those systems are those systems are subject systems are subject to are subject to significant subject to significant changes to significant changes in significant changes in their changes in their design in their design or their design or intended design or intended purpose.
it is is appropriate appropriate to to clarify clarify that that in in this this respect respect the the concept concept of of significant significant change change should should be be understood understood as as equivalent equivalent in in substance substance to to the the notion notion of of substantial substantial modification modification which which is is used used with with regard regard only only to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems as as defined defined in in this this regulation.
it is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to clarify to clarify that clarify that in that in this in this respect this respect the respect the concept the concept of concept of significant of significant change significant change should change should be should be understood be understood as understood as equivalent as equivalent in equivalent in substance in substance to substance to the to the notion the notion of notion of substantial of substantial modification substantial modification which modification which is which is used is used with used with regard with regard only regard only to only to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems as systems as defined as defined in defined in this in this regulation.
it is appropriate to is appropriate to clarify appropriate to clarify that to clarify that in clarify that in this that in this respect in this respect the this respect the concept respect the concept of the concept of significant concept of significant change of significant change should significant change should be change should be understood should be understood as be understood as equivalent understood as equivalent in as equivalent in substance equivalent in substance to in substance to the substance to the notion to the notion of the notion of substantial notion of substantial modification of substantial modification which substantial modification which is modification which is used which is used with is used with regard used with regard only with regard only to regard only to high-risk only to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems as ai systems as defined systems as defined in as defined in this defined in this regulation.
regulation eu eu no no of of the the european european parliament parliament and and of of the the council council of of february february laying laying down down the the rules rules and and general general principles principles concerning concerning mechanisms mechanisms for for control control by by the the member member states states of of the the commissions commissions exercise exercise of of implementing implementing powers powers oj oj l l .. .. p.. p.. tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en this this regulation regulation should should apply apply from from … … op op – – please please insert insert the the date date established established in in art.
regulation eu no eu no of no of the of the european the european parliament european parliament and parliament and of and of the of the council the council of council of february of february laying february laying down laying down the down the rules the rules and rules and general and general principles general principles concerning principles concerning mechanisms concerning mechanisms for mechanisms for control for control by control by the by the member the member states member states of states of the of the commissions the commissions exercise commissions exercise of exercise of implementing of implementing powers implementing powers oj powers oj l oj l .. l .. p.. .. p.. tree..b p.. tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en this en this regulation this regulation should regulation should apply should apply from apply from … from … op … op – op – please – please insert please insert the insert the date the date established date established in established in art.
regulation eu no of eu no of the no of the european of the european parliament the european parliament and european parliament and of parliament and of the and of the council of the council of the council of february council of february laying of february laying down february laying down the laying down the rules down the rules and the rules and general rules and general principles and general principles concerning general principles concerning mechanisms principles concerning mechanisms for concerning mechanisms for control mechanisms for control by for control by the control by the member by the member states the member states of member states of the states of the commissions of the commissions exercise the commissions exercise of commissions exercise of implementing exercise of implementing powers of implementing powers oj implementing powers oj l powers oj l .. oj l .. p.. l .. p.. tree..b .. p.. tree..b rbek p.. tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en this rbek en this regulation en this regulation should this regulation should apply regulation should apply from should apply from … apply from … op from … op – … op – please op – please insert – please insert the please insert the date insert the date established the date established in date established in art.
however the the infrastructure infrastructure related related to to the the governance governance and and the the conformity conformity assessment assessment system system should should be be operational operational before before that that date date therefore therefore the the provisions provisions on on notified notified bodies bodies and and governance governance structure structure should should apply apply from from … … op op – – please please insert insert the the date date – – three three months months following following the the entry entry into into force force of of this this regulation.
however the infrastructure the infrastructure related infrastructure related to related to the to the governance the governance and governance and the and the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment system assessment system should system should be should be operational be operational before operational before that before that date that date therefore date therefore the therefore the provisions the provisions on provisions on notified on notified bodies notified bodies and bodies and governance and governance structure governance structure should structure should apply should apply from apply from … from … op … op – op – please – please insert please insert the insert the date the date – date – three – three months three months following months following the following the entry the entry into entry into force into force of force of this of this regulation.
however the infrastructure related the infrastructure related to infrastructure related to the related to the governance to the governance and the governance and the governance and the conformity and the conformity assessment the conformity assessment system conformity assessment system should assessment system should be system should be operational should be operational before be operational before that operational before that date before that date therefore that date therefore the date therefore the provisions therefore the provisions on the provisions on notified provisions on notified bodies on notified bodies and notified bodies and governance bodies and governance structure and governance structure should governance structure should apply structure should apply from should apply from … apply from … op from … op – … op – please op – please insert – please insert the please insert the date insert the date – the date – three date – three months – three months following three months following the months following the entry following the entry into the entry into force entry into force of into force of this force of this regulation.
in addition addition member member states states should should lay lay down down and and notify notify to to the the commission commission the the rules rules on on penalties penalties including including administrative administrative fines fines and and ensure ensure that that they they are are properly properly and and effectively effectively implemented implemented by by the the date date of of application application of of this this regulation.
in addition member addition member states member states should states should lay should lay down lay down and down and notify and notify to notify to the to the commission the commission the commission the rules the rules on rules on penalties on penalties including penalties including administrative including administrative fines administrative fines and fines and ensure and ensure that ensure that they that they are they are properly are properly and properly and effectively and effectively implemented effectively implemented by implemented by the by the date the date of date of application of application of application of this of this regulation.
in addition member states addition member states should member states should lay states should lay down should lay down and lay down and notify down and notify to and notify to the notify to the commission to the commission the the commission the rules commission the rules on the rules on penalties rules on penalties including on penalties including administrative penalties including administrative fines including administrative fines and administrative fines and ensure fines and ensure that and ensure that they ensure that they are that they are properly they are properly and are properly and effectively properly and effectively implemented and effectively implemented by effectively implemented by the implemented by the date by the date of the date of application date of application of of application of this application of this regulation.
therefore the the provisions provisions on on penalties penalties should should apply apply from from op op – – please please insert insert the the date date – – twelve twelve months months following following the the entry entry into into force force of of this this regulation.
therefore the provisions the provisions on provisions on penalties on penalties should penalties should apply should apply from apply from op from op – op – please – please insert please insert the insert the date the date – date – twelve – twelve months twelve months following months following the following the entry the entry into entry into force into force of force of this of this regulation.
therefore the provisions on the provisions on penalties provisions on penalties should on penalties should apply penalties should apply from should apply from op apply from op – from op – please op – please insert – please insert the please insert the date insert the date – the date – twelve date – twelve months – twelve months following twelve months following the months following the entry following the entry into the entry into force entry into force of into force of this force of this regulation.
the european european data data protection protection supervisor supervisor and and the the european european data data protection protection board board were were consulted consulted in in accordance accordance with with article article of of regulation regulation eu eu and and delivered delivered an an opinion opinion on on …”.
the european data european data protection data protection supervisor protection supervisor and supervisor and the and the european the european data european data protection data protection board protection board were board were consulted were consulted in consulted in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu and eu and delivered and delivered an delivered an opinion an opinion on opinion on …”.
the european data protection european data protection supervisor data protection supervisor and protection supervisor and the supervisor and the european and the european data the european data protection european data protection board data protection board were protection board were consulted board were consulted in were consulted in accordance consulted in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article of with article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu and regulation eu and delivered eu and delivered an and delivered an opinion delivered an opinion on an opinion on …”.
have adopted adopted this this regulation regulation title title i i general general provisions provisions article article subject subject matter matter this this regulation regulation lays lays down down a a harmonised harmonised rules rules for for the the placing placing on on the the market market the the putting putting into into service service and and the the use use of of artificial artificial intelligence intelligence systems systems ‘ai ‘ai systems’ systems’ in in the the union union a a prohibitions prohibitions of of certain certain artificial artificial intelligence intelligence practices practices b b specific specific requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems and and obligations obligations for for operators operators of of such such systems systems tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en article article definitions definitions for for the the purpose purpose of of this this regulation regulation the the following following definitions definitions apply apply ‘artificial ‘artificial intelligence intelligence system’ system’ ai ai system system means means a a system system that that is is designed designed to to operate operate with with elements elements of of autonomy autonomy and and that that based based on on machine machine andor andor human-provided human-provided data data and and inputs inputs infers infers how how to to achieve achieve a a given given set set of of objectives objectives using using machine machine learning learning andor andor logic- logic- and and knowledge knowledge based based approaches approaches and and produces produces system-generated system-generated outputs outputs such such as as content content generative generative ai ai systems systems predictions predictions recommendations recommendations or or decisions decisions influencing influencing the the environments environments with with which which the the ai ai system system interacts interacts a a ‘life ‘life cycle cycle of of an an ai ai system’ system’ means means the the duration duration of of an an ai ai system system from from design design through through retirement.
have adopted this adopted this regulation this regulation title regulation title i title i general i general provisions general provisions article provisions article subject article subject matter subject matter this matter this regulation this regulation lays regulation lays down lays down a down a harmonised a harmonised rules harmonised rules for rules for the for the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market the market the putting the putting into putting into service into service and service and the and the use the use of use of artificial of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence systems intelligence systems ‘ai systems ‘ai systems’ ‘ai systems’ in systems’ in the in the union the union a union a prohibitions a prohibitions of prohibitions of certain of certain artificial certain artificial intelligence artificial intelligence practices intelligence practices b practices b specific b specific requirements specific requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems and systems and obligations and obligations for obligations for operators for operators of operators of such of such systems such systems tree..b systems tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article definitions article definitions for definitions for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of this of this regulation this regulation the regulation the following the following definitions following definitions apply definitions apply ‘artificial apply ‘artificial intelligence ‘artificial intelligence system’ intelligence system’ ai system’ ai system ai system means system means a means a system a system that system that is that is designed is designed to designed to operate to operate with operate with elements with elements of elements of autonomy of autonomy and autonomy and that and that based that based on based on machine on machine andor machine andor human-provided andor human-provided data human-provided data and data and inputs and inputs infers inputs infers how infers how to how to achieve to achieve a achieve a given a given set given set of set of objectives of objectives using objectives using machine using machine learning machine learning andor learning andor logic- andor logic- and logic- and knowledge and knowledge based knowledge based approaches based approaches and approaches and produces and produces system-generated produces system-generated outputs system-generated outputs such outputs such as such as content as content generative content generative ai generative ai systems ai systems predictions systems predictions recommendations predictions recommendations or recommendations or decisions or decisions influencing decisions influencing the influencing the environments the environments with environments with which with which the which the ai the ai system ai system interacts system interacts a interacts a ‘life a ‘life cycle ‘life cycle of cycle of an of an ai an ai system’ ai system’ means system’ means the means the duration the duration of duration of an of an ai an ai system ai system from system from design from design through design through retirement.
have adopted this regulation adopted this regulation title this regulation title i regulation title i general title i general provisions i general provisions article general provisions article subject provisions article subject matter article subject matter this subject matter this regulation matter this regulation lays this regulation lays down regulation lays down a lays down a harmonised down a harmonised rules a harmonised rules for harmonised rules for the rules for the placing for the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market the the market the putting market the putting into the putting into service putting into service and into service and the service and the use and the use of the use of artificial use of artificial intelligence of artificial intelligence systems artificial intelligence systems ‘ai intelligence systems ‘ai systems’ systems ‘ai systems’ in ‘ai systems’ in the systems’ in the union in the union a the union a prohibitions union a prohibitions of a prohibitions of certain prohibitions of certain artificial of certain artificial intelligence certain artificial intelligence practices artificial intelligence practices b intelligence practices b specific practices b specific requirements b specific requirements for specific requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems and ai systems and obligations systems and obligations for and obligations for operators obligations for operators of for operators of such operators of such systems of such systems tree..b such systems tree..b rbek systems tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en article rbek en article definitions en article definitions for article definitions for the definitions for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of this purpose of this regulation of this regulation the this regulation the following regulation the following definitions the following definitions apply following definitions apply ‘artificial definitions apply ‘artificial intelligence apply ‘artificial intelligence system’ ‘artificial intelligence system’ ai intelligence system’ ai system system’ ai system means ai system means a system means a system means a system that a system that is system that is designed that is designed to is designed to operate designed to operate with to operate with elements operate with elements of with elements of autonomy elements of autonomy and of autonomy and that autonomy and that based and that based on that based on machine based on machine andor on machine andor human-provided machine andor human-provided data andor human-provided data and human-provided data and inputs data and inputs infers and inputs infers how inputs infers how to infers how to achieve how to achieve a to achieve a given achieve a given set a given set of given set of objectives set of objectives using of objectives using machine objectives using machine learning using machine learning andor machine learning andor logic- learning andor logic- and andor logic- and knowledge logic- and knowledge based and knowledge based approaches knowledge based approaches and based approaches and produces approaches and produces system-generated and produces system-generated outputs produces system-generated outputs such system-generated outputs such as outputs such as content such as content generative as content generative ai content generative ai systems generative ai systems predictions ai systems predictions recommendations systems predictions recommendations or predictions recommendations or decisions recommendations or decisions influencing or decisions influencing the decisions influencing the environments influencing the environments with the environments with which environments with which the with which the ai which the ai system the ai system interacts ai system interacts a system interacts a ‘life interacts a ‘life cycle a ‘life cycle of ‘life cycle of an cycle of an ai of an ai system’ an ai system’ means ai system’ means the system’ means the duration means the duration of the duration of an duration of an ai of an ai system an ai system from ai system from design system from design through from design through retirement.
without prejudice prejudice to to the the powers powers of of the the market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities such such retirement retirement may may happen happen at at any any point point in in time time during during the the post-market post-market monitoring monitoring phase phase upon upon the the decision decision of of the the provider provider and and implies implies that that the the system system may may not not be be used used further.
without prejudice to prejudice to the to the powers the powers of powers of the of the market the market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities such authorities such retirement such retirement may retirement may happen may happen at happen at any at any point any point in point in time in time during time during the during the post-market the post-market monitoring post-market monitoring phase monitoring phase upon phase upon the upon the decision the decision of decision of the of the provider the provider and provider and implies and implies that implies that the that the system the system may system may not may not be not be used be used further.
without prejudice to the prejudice to the powers to the powers of the powers of the powers of the market of the market surveillance the market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities such surveillance authorities such retirement authorities such retirement may such retirement may happen retirement may happen at may happen at any happen at any point at any point in any point in time point in time during in time during the time during the post-market during the post-market monitoring the post-market monitoring phase post-market monitoring phase upon monitoring phase upon the phase upon the decision upon the decision of the decision of the decision of the provider of the provider and the provider and implies provider and implies that and implies that the implies that the system that the system may the system may not system may not be may not be used not be used further.
an ai ai system system lifecycle lifecycle is is also also ended ended by by a a substantial substantial modification modification to to the the ai ai system system made made by by the the provider provider or or any any other other natural natural or or legal legal person person in in which which case case the the substantially substantially modified modified ai ai system system shall shall be be considered considered as as a a new new ai ai system.
an ai system ai system lifecycle system lifecycle is lifecycle is also is also ended also ended by ended by a by a substantial a substantial modification substantial modification to modification to the to the ai the ai system ai system made system made by made by the by the provider the provider or provider or any or any other any other natural other natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person in person in which in which case which case the case the substantially the substantially modified substantially modified ai modified ai system ai system shall system shall be shall be considered be considered as considered as a as a new a new ai new ai system.
an ai system lifecycle ai system lifecycle is system lifecycle is also lifecycle is also ended is also ended by also ended by a ended by a substantial by a substantial modification a substantial modification to substantial modification to the modification to the ai to the ai system the ai system made ai system made by system made by the made by the provider by the provider or the provider or any provider or any other or any other natural any other natural or other natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person in legal person in which person in which case in which case the which case the substantially case the substantially modified the substantially modified ai substantially modified ai system modified ai system shall ai system shall be system shall be considered shall be considered as be considered as a considered as a new as a new ai a new ai system.
b ‘general ‘general purpose purpose ai ai system’ system’ means means an an ai ai system system that that - - irrespective irrespective of of how how it it is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service including including as as open open source source software software - - is is intended intended by by the the provider provider to to perform perform generally generally applicable applicable functions functions such such as as image image and and speech speech recognition recognition audio audio and and video video generation generation pattern pattern detection detection question question answering answering translation translation and and others others a a general general purpose purpose ai ai system system may may be be used used in in a a plurality plurality of of contexts contexts and and be be integrated integrated in in a a plurality plurality of of other other ai ai systems systems ‘provider’ ‘provider’ means means a a natural natural or or legal legal person person public public authority authority agency agency or or other other body body that that develops develops an an ai ai system system or or that that has has an an ai ai system system developed developed and and places places that that system system on on the the market market or or puts puts it it into into service service under under its its own own name name or or trademark trademark whether whether for for payment payment or or free free of of charge charge tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en deleted deleted a a ‘small ‘small and and medium-sized medium-sized enterprise’ enterprise’ smes smes means means an an enterprise enterprise as as defined defined in in the the annex annex of of commission commission recommendation recommendation ec ec concerning concerning the the definition definition of of micro micro small small and and medium-sized medium-sized enterprises enterprises ‘user’ ‘user’ means means any any natural natural or or legal legal person person including including a a public public authority authority agency agency or or other other body body under under whose whose authority authority the the system system is is used used ‘authorised ‘authorised representative’ representative’ means means any any natural natural or or legal legal person person physically physically present present or or established established in in the the union union who who has has received received and and accepted accepted a a written written mandate mandate from from a a provider provider of of an an ai ai system system to to respectively respectively perform perform and and carry carry out out on on its its behalf behalf the the obligations obligations and and procedures procedures established established by by this this regulation regulation a a ‘product ‘product manufacturer’ manufacturer’ means means a a manufacturer manufacturer within within the the meaning meaning of of any any of of the the union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation listed listed in in annex annex ii ii ‘importer’ ‘importer’ means means any any natural natural or or legal legal person person physically physically present present or or established established in in the the union union that that places places on on the the market market an an ai ai system system that that bears bears the the name name or or trademark trademark of of a a natural natural or or legal legal person person established established outside outside the the union union ‘distributor’ ‘distributor’ means means any any natural natural or or legal legal person person in in the the supply supply chain chain other other than than the the provider provider or or the the importer importer that that makes makes an an ai ai system system available available on on the the union union market market ‘operator’ ‘operator’ means means the the provider provider the the product product manufacturer manufacturer the the user user the the authorised authorised representative representative the the importer importer or or the the distributor distributor ‘placing ‘placing on on the the market’ market’ means means the the first first making making available available of of an an ai ai system system on on the the union union market market ‘making ‘making available available on on the the market’ market’ means means any any supply supply of of an an ai ai system system for for distribution distribution or or use use on on the the union union market market in in the the course course of of a a commercial commercial activity activity whether whether in in return return for for payment payment or or free free of of charge charge tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘putting ‘putting into into service’ service’ means means the the supply supply of of an an ai ai system system for for first first use use directly directly to to the the user user or or for for own own use use in in the the union union for for its its intended intended purpose purpose ‘intended ‘intended purpose’ purpose’ means means the the use use for for which which an an ai ai system system is is intended intended by by the the provider provider including including the the specific specific context context and and conditions conditions of of use use as as specified specified in in the the information information supplied supplied by by the the provider provider in in the the instructions instructions for for use use promotional promotional or or sales sales materials materials and and statements statements as as well well as as in in the the technical technical documentation documentation ‘reasonably ‘reasonably foreseeable foreseeable misuse’ misuse’ means means the the use use of of an an ai ai system system in in a a way way that that is is not not in in accordance accordance with with its its intended intended purpose purpose but but which which may may result result from from reasonably reasonably foreseeable foreseeable human human behaviour behaviour or or interaction interaction with with other other systems systems ‘safety ‘safety component component of of a a product product or or system’ system’ means means a a component component of of a a product product or or of of a a system system which which fulfils fulfils a a safety safety function function for for that that product product or or system system or or the the failure failure or or malfunctioning malfunctioning of of which which endangers endangers the the health health and and safety safety of of persons persons or or property property ‘instructions ‘instructions for for use’ use’ means means the the information information provided provided by by the the provider provider to to inform inform the the user user of of in in particular particular an an ai ai system’s system’s intended intended purpose purpose and and proper proper use use ‘recall ‘recall of of an an ai ai system’ system’ means means any any measure measure aimed aimed at at achieving achieving the the return return to to the the provider provider or or taking taking it it out out of of service service or or disabling disabling the the use use of of an an ai ai system system made made available available to to users users ‘withdrawal ‘withdrawal of of an an ai ai system’ system’ means means any any measure measure aimed aimed at at preventing preventing an an ai ai system system in in the the supply supply chain chain being being made made available available on on the the market market ‘performance ‘performance of of an an ai ai system’ system’ means means the the ability ability of of an an ai ai system system to to achieve achieve its its intended intended purpose purpose ‘conformity ‘conformity assessment’ assessment’ means means the the process process of of verifying verifying whether whether the the requirements requirements set set out out in in title title iii iii chapter chapter of of this this regulation regulation relating relating to to a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system have have been been fulfilled fulfilled tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘notifying ‘notifying authority’ authority’ means means the the national national authority authority responsible responsible for for setting setting up up and and carrying carrying out out the the necessary necessary procedures procedures for for the the assessment assessment designation designation and and notification notification of of conformity conformity assessment assessment bodies bodies and and for for their their monitoring monitoring ‘conformity ‘conformity assessment assessment body’ body’ means means a a body body that that performs performs third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment activities activities including including testing testing certification certification and and inspection inspection ‘notified ‘notified body’ body’ means means a a conformity conformity assessment assessment body body designated designated in in accordance accordance with with this this regulation regulation and and other other relevant relevant union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation ‘substantial ‘substantial modification’ modification’ means means a a change change to to the the ai ai system system following following its its placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service which which affects affects the the compliance compliance of of the the ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in title title iii iii chapter chapter of of this this regulation regulation or or a a modification modification to to the the intended intended purpose purpose for for which which the the ai ai system system has has been been assessed.
b ‘general purpose ‘general purpose ai purpose ai system’ ai system’ means system’ means an means an ai an ai system ai system that system that - that - irrespective - irrespective of irrespective of how of how it how it is it is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service including service including as including as open as open source open source software source software - software - is - is intended is intended by intended by the by the provider the provider to provider to perform to perform generally perform generally applicable generally applicable functions applicable functions such functions such as such as image as image and image and speech and speech recognition speech recognition audio recognition audio and audio and video and video generation video generation pattern generation pattern detection pattern detection question detection question answering question answering translation answering translation and translation and others and others a others a general a general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system ai system may system may be may be used be used in used in a in a plurality a plurality of plurality of contexts of contexts and contexts and be and be integrated be integrated in integrated in a in a plurality a plurality of plurality of other of other ai other ai systems ai systems ‘provider’ systems ‘provider’ means ‘provider’ means a means a natural a natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person public person public authority public authority agency authority agency or agency or other or other body other body that body that develops that develops an develops an ai an ai system ai system or system or that or that has that has an has an ai an ai system ai system developed system developed and developed and places and places that places that system that system on system on the on the market the market or market or puts or puts it puts it into it into service into service under service under its under its own its own name own name or name or trademark or trademark whether trademark whether for whether for payment for payment or payment or free or free of free of charge of charge tree..b charge tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en deleted en deleted a deleted a ‘small a ‘small and ‘small and medium-sized and medium-sized enterprise’ medium-sized enterprise’ smes enterprise’ smes means smes means an means an enterprise an enterprise as enterprise as defined as defined in defined in the in the annex the annex of annex of commission of commission recommendation commission recommendation ec recommendation ec concerning ec concerning the concerning the definition the definition of definition of micro of micro small micro small and small and medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises medium-sized enterprises ‘user’ enterprises ‘user’ means ‘user’ means any means any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person including person including a including a public a public authority public authority agency authority agency or agency or other or other body other body under body under whose under whose authority whose authority the authority the system the system is system is used is used ‘authorised used ‘authorised representative’ ‘authorised representative’ means representative’ means any means any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person physically person physically present physically present or present or established or established in established in the in the union the union who union who has who has received has received and received and accepted and accepted a accepted a written a written mandate written mandate from mandate from a from a provider a provider of provider of an of an ai an ai system ai system to system to respectively to respectively perform respectively perform and perform and carry and carry out carry out on out on its on its behalf its behalf the behalf the obligations the obligations and obligations and procedures and procedures established procedures established by established by this by this regulation this regulation a regulation a ‘product a ‘product manufacturer’ ‘product manufacturer’ means manufacturer’ means a means a manufacturer a manufacturer within manufacturer within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of any of any of any of the of the union the union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation listed legislation listed in listed in annex in annex ii annex ii ‘importer’ ii ‘importer’ means ‘importer’ means any means any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person physically person physically present physically present or present or established or established in established in the in the union the union that union that places that places on places on the on the market the market an market an ai an ai system ai system that system that bears that bears the bears the name the name or name or trademark or trademark of trademark of a of a natural a natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person established person established outside established outside the outside the union the union ‘distributor’ union ‘distributor’ means ‘distributor’ means any means any natural any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person in person in the in the supply the supply chain supply chain other chain other than other than the than the provider the provider or provider or the or the importer the importer that importer that makes that makes an makes an ai an ai system ai system available system available on available on the on the union the union market union market ‘operator’ market ‘operator’ means ‘operator’ means the means the provider the provider the provider the product the product manufacturer product manufacturer the manufacturer the user the user the user the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative the representative the importer the importer or importer or the or the distributor the distributor ‘placing distributor ‘placing on ‘placing on the on the market’ the market’ means market’ means the means the first the first making first making available making available of available of an of an ai an ai system ai system on system on the on the union the union market union market ‘making market ‘making available ‘making available on available on the on the market’ the market’ means market’ means any means any supply any supply of supply of an of an ai an ai system ai system for system for distribution for distribution or distribution or use or use on use on the on the union the union market union market in market in the in the course the course of course of a of a commercial a commercial activity commercial activity whether activity whether in whether in return in return for return for payment for payment or payment or free or free of free of charge of charge tree..b charge tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘putting en ‘putting into ‘putting into service’ into service’ means service’ means the means the supply the supply of supply of an of an ai an ai system ai system for system for first for first use first use directly use directly to directly to the to the user the user or user or for or for own for own use own use in use in the in the union the union for union for its for its intended its intended purpose intended purpose ‘intended purpose ‘intended purpose’ ‘intended purpose’ means purpose’ means the means the use the use for use for which for which an which an ai an ai system ai system is system is intended is intended by intended by the by the provider the provider including provider including the including the specific the specific context specific context and context and conditions and conditions of conditions of use of use as use as specified as specified in specified in the in the information the information supplied information supplied by supplied by the by the provider the provider in provider in the in the instructions the instructions for instructions for use for use promotional use promotional or promotional or sales or sales materials sales materials and materials and statements and statements as statements as well as well as well as in as in the in the technical the technical documentation technical documentation ‘reasonably documentation ‘reasonably foreseeable ‘reasonably foreseeable misuse’ foreseeable misuse’ means misuse’ means the means the use the use of use of an of an ai an ai system ai system in system in a in a way a way that way that is that is not is not in not in accordance in accordance with accordance with its with its intended its intended purpose intended purpose but purpose but which but which may which may result may result from result from reasonably from reasonably foreseeable reasonably foreseeable human foreseeable human behaviour human behaviour or behaviour or interaction or interaction with interaction with other with other systems other systems ‘safety systems ‘safety component ‘safety component of component of a of a product a product or product or system’ or system’ means system’ means a means a component a component of component of a of a product a product or product or of or of a of a system a system which system which fulfils which fulfils a fulfils a safety a safety function safety function for function for that for that product that product or product or system or system or system or the or the failure the failure or failure or malfunctioning or malfunctioning of malfunctioning of which of which endangers which endangers the endangers the health the health and health and safety and safety of safety of persons of persons or persons or property or property ‘instructions property ‘instructions for ‘instructions for use’ for use’ means use’ means the means the information the information provided information provided by provided by the by the provider the provider to provider to inform to inform the inform the user the user of user of in of in particular in particular an particular an ai an ai system’s ai system’s intended system’s intended purpose intended purpose and purpose and proper and proper use proper use ‘recall use ‘recall of ‘recall of an of an ai an ai system’ ai system’ means system’ means any means any measure any measure aimed measure aimed at aimed at achieving at achieving the achieving the return the return to return to the to the provider the provider or provider or taking or taking it taking it out it out of out of service of service or service or disabling or disabling the disabling the use the use of use of an of an ai an ai system ai system made system made available made available to available to users to users ‘withdrawal users ‘withdrawal of ‘withdrawal of an of an ai an ai system’ ai system’ means system’ means any means any measure any measure aimed measure aimed at aimed at preventing at preventing an preventing an ai an ai system ai system in system in the in the supply the supply chain supply chain being chain being made being made available made available on available on the on the market the market ‘performance market ‘performance of ‘performance of an of an ai an ai system’ ai system’ means system’ means the means the ability the ability of ability of an of an ai an ai system ai system to system to achieve to achieve its achieve its intended its intended purpose intended purpose ‘conformity purpose ‘conformity assessment’ ‘conformity assessment’ means assessment’ means the means the process the process of process of verifying of verifying whether verifying whether the whether the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in title in title iii title iii chapter iii chapter of chapter of this of this regulation this regulation relating regulation relating to relating to a to a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system have system have been have been fulfilled been fulfilled tree..b fulfilled tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘notifying en ‘notifying authority’ ‘notifying authority’ means authority’ means the means the national the national authority national authority responsible authority responsible for responsible for setting for setting up setting up and up and carrying and carrying out carrying out the out the necessary the necessary procedures necessary procedures for procedures for the for the assessment the assessment designation assessment designation and designation and notification and notification of notification of conformity of conformity assessment conformity assessment bodies assessment bodies and bodies and for and for their for their monitoring their monitoring ‘conformity monitoring ‘conformity assessment ‘conformity assessment body’ assessment body’ means body’ means a means a body a body that body that performs that performs third-party performs third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment activities assessment activities including activities including testing including testing certification testing certification and certification and inspection and inspection ‘notified inspection ‘notified body’ ‘notified body’ means body’ means a means a conformity a conformity assessment conformity assessment body assessment body designated body designated in designated in accordance in accordance with accordance with this with this regulation this regulation and regulation and other and other relevant other relevant union relevant union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation ‘substantial legislation ‘substantial modification’ ‘substantial modification’ means modification’ means a means a change a change to change to the to the ai the ai system ai system following system following its following its placing its placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service which service which affects which affects the affects the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the ai the ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in title in title iii title iii chapter iii chapter of chapter of this of this regulation this regulation or regulation or a or a modification a modification to modification to the to the intended the intended purpose intended purpose for purpose for which for which the which the ai the ai system ai system has system has been has been assessed.
b ‘general purpose ai ‘general purpose ai system’ purpose ai system’ means ai system’ means an system’ means an ai means an ai system an ai system that ai system that - system that - irrespective that - irrespective of - irrespective of how irrespective of how it of how it is how it is placed it is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service including into service including as service including as open including as open source as open source software open source software - source software - is software - is intended - is intended by is intended by the intended by the provider by the provider to the provider to perform provider to perform generally to perform generally applicable perform generally applicable functions generally applicable functions such applicable functions such as functions such as image such as image and as image and speech image and speech recognition and speech recognition audio speech recognition audio and recognition audio and video audio and video generation and video generation pattern video generation pattern detection generation pattern detection question pattern detection question answering detection question answering translation question answering translation and answering translation and others translation and others a and others a general others a general purpose a general purpose ai general purpose ai system purpose ai system may ai system may be system may be used may be used in be used in a used in a plurality in a plurality of a plurality of contexts plurality of contexts and of contexts and be contexts and be integrated and be integrated in be integrated in a integrated in a plurality in a plurality of a plurality of other plurality of other ai of other ai systems other ai systems ‘provider’ ai systems ‘provider’ means systems ‘provider’ means a ‘provider’ means a natural means a natural or a natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person public legal person public authority person public authority agency public authority agency or authority agency or other agency or other body or other body that other body that develops body that develops an that develops an ai develops an ai system an ai system or ai system or that system or that has or that has an that has an ai has an ai system an ai system developed ai system developed and system developed and places developed and places that and places that system places that system on that system on the system on the market on the market or the market or puts market or puts it or puts it into puts it into service it into service under into service under its service under its own under its own name its own name or own name or trademark name or trademark whether or trademark whether for trademark whether for payment whether for payment or for payment or free payment or free of or free of charge free of charge tree..b of charge tree..b rbek charge tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en deleted rbek en deleted a en deleted a ‘small deleted a ‘small and a ‘small and medium-sized ‘small and medium-sized enterprise’ and medium-sized enterprise’ smes medium-sized enterprise’ smes means enterprise’ smes means an smes means an enterprise means an enterprise as an enterprise as defined enterprise as defined in as defined in the defined in the annex in the annex of the annex of commission annex of commission recommendation of commission recommendation ec commission recommendation ec concerning recommendation ec concerning the ec concerning the definition concerning the definition of the definition of micro definition of micro small of micro small and micro small and medium-sized small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises ‘user’ medium-sized enterprises ‘user’ means enterprises ‘user’ means any ‘user’ means any natural means any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person including legal person including a person including a public including a public authority a public authority agency public authority agency or authority agency or other agency or other body or other body under other body under whose body under whose authority under whose authority the whose authority the system authority the system is the system is used system is used ‘authorised is used ‘authorised representative’ used ‘authorised representative’ means ‘authorised representative’ means any representative’ means any natural means any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person physically legal person physically present person physically present or physically present or established present or established in or established in the established in the union in the union who the union who has union who has received who has received and has received and accepted received and accepted a and accepted a written accepted a written mandate a written mandate from written mandate from a mandate from a provider from a provider of a provider of an provider of an ai of an ai system an ai system to ai system to respectively system to respectively perform to respectively perform and respectively perform and carry perform and carry out and carry out on carry out on its out on its behalf on its behalf the its behalf the obligations behalf the obligations and the obligations and procedures obligations and procedures established and procedures established by procedures established by this established by this regulation by this regulation a this regulation a ‘product regulation a ‘product manufacturer’ a ‘product manufacturer’ means ‘product manufacturer’ means a manufacturer’ means a manufacturer means a manufacturer within a manufacturer within the manufacturer within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of any meaning of any of of any of the any of the union of the union harmonisation the union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation listed harmonisation legislation listed in legislation listed in annex listed in annex ii in annex ii ‘importer’ annex ii ‘importer’ means ii ‘importer’ means any ‘importer’ means any natural means any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person physically legal person physically present person physically present or physically present or established present or established in or established in the established in the union in the union that the union that places union that places on that places on the places on the market on the market an the market an ai market an ai system an ai system that ai system that bears system that bears the that bears the name bears the name or the name or trademark name or trademark of or trademark of a trademark of a natural of a natural or a natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person established legal person established outside person established outside the established outside the union outside the union ‘distributor’ the union ‘distributor’ means union ‘distributor’ means any ‘distributor’ means any natural means any natural or any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person in legal person in the person in the supply in the supply chain the supply chain other supply chain other than chain other than the other than the provider than the provider or the provider or the provider or the importer or the importer that the importer that makes importer that makes an that makes an ai makes an ai system an ai system available ai system available on system available on the available on the union on the union market the union market ‘operator’ union market ‘operator’ means market ‘operator’ means the ‘operator’ means the provider means the provider the the provider the product provider the product manufacturer the product manufacturer the product manufacturer the user manufacturer the user the the user the authorised user the authorised representative the authorised representative the authorised representative the importer representative the importer or the importer or the importer or the distributor or the distributor ‘placing the distributor ‘placing on distributor ‘placing on the ‘placing on the market’ on the market’ means the market’ means the market’ means the first means the first making the first making available first making available of making available of an available of an ai of an ai system an ai system on ai system on the system on the union on the union market the union market ‘making union market ‘making available market ‘making available on ‘making available on the available on the market’ on the market’ means the market’ means any market’ means any supply means any supply of any supply of an supply of an ai of an ai system an ai system for ai system for distribution system for distribution or for distribution or use distribution or use on or use on the use on the union on the union market the union market in union market in the market in the course in the course of the course of a course of a commercial of a commercial activity a commercial activity whether commercial activity whether in activity whether in return whether in return for in return for payment return for payment or for payment or free payment or free of or free of charge free of charge tree..b of charge tree..b rbek charge tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘putting rbek en ‘putting into en ‘putting into service’ ‘putting into service’ means into service’ means the service’ means the supply means the supply of the supply of an supply of an ai of an ai system an ai system for ai system for first system for first use for first use directly first use directly to use directly to the directly to the user to the user or the user or for user or for own or for own use for own use in own use in the use in the union in the union for the union for its union for its intended for its intended purpose its intended purpose ‘intended intended purpose ‘intended purpose’ purpose ‘intended purpose’ means ‘intended purpose’ means the purpose’ means the use means the use for the use for which use for which an for which an ai which an ai system an ai system is ai system is intended system is intended by is intended by the intended by the provider by the provider including the provider including the provider including the specific including the specific context the specific context and specific context and conditions context and conditions of and conditions of use conditions of use as of use as specified use as specified in as specified in the specified in the information in the information supplied the information supplied by information supplied by the supplied by the provider by the provider in the provider in the provider in the instructions in the instructions for the instructions for use instructions for use promotional for use promotional or use promotional or sales promotional or sales materials or sales materials and sales materials and statements materials and statements as and statements as well statements as well as as well as in well as in the as in the technical in the technical documentation the technical documentation ‘reasonably technical documentation ‘reasonably foreseeable documentation ‘reasonably foreseeable misuse’ ‘reasonably foreseeable misuse’ means foreseeable misuse’ means the misuse’ means the use means the use of the use of an use of an ai of an ai system an ai system in ai system in a system in a way in a way that a way that is way that is not that is not in is not in accordance not in accordance with in accordance with its accordance with its intended with its intended purpose its intended purpose but intended purpose but which purpose but which may but which may result which may result from may result from reasonably result from reasonably foreseeable from reasonably foreseeable human reasonably foreseeable human behaviour foreseeable human behaviour or human behaviour or interaction behaviour or interaction with or interaction with other interaction with other systems with other systems ‘safety other systems ‘safety component systems ‘safety component of ‘safety component of a component of a product of a product or a product or system’ product or system’ means or system’ means a system’ means a component means a component of a component of a component of a product of a product or a product or of product or of a or of a system of a system which a system which fulfils system which fulfils a which fulfils a safety fulfils a safety function a safety function for safety function for that function for that product for that product or that product or system product or system or or system or the system or the failure or the failure or the failure or malfunctioning failure or malfunctioning of or malfunctioning of which malfunctioning of which endangers of which endangers the which endangers the health endangers the health and the health and safety health and safety of and safety of persons safety of persons or of persons or property persons or property ‘instructions or property ‘instructions for property ‘instructions for use’ ‘instructions for use’ means for use’ means the use’ means the information means the information provided the information provided by information provided by the provided by the provider by the provider to the provider to inform provider to inform the to inform the user inform the user of the user of in user of in particular of in particular an in particular an ai particular an ai system’s an ai system’s intended ai system’s intended purpose system’s intended purpose and intended purpose and proper purpose and proper use and proper use ‘recall proper use ‘recall of use ‘recall of an ‘recall of an ai of an ai system’ an ai system’ means ai system’ means any system’ means any measure means any measure aimed any measure aimed at measure aimed at achieving aimed at achieving the at achieving the return achieving the return to the return to the return to the provider to the provider or the provider or taking provider or taking it or taking it out taking it out of it out of service out of service or of service or disabling service or disabling the or disabling the use disabling the use of the use of an use of an ai of an ai system an ai system made ai system made available system made available to made available to users available to users ‘withdrawal to users ‘withdrawal of users ‘withdrawal of an ‘withdrawal of an ai of an ai system’ an ai system’ means ai system’ means any system’ means any measure means any measure aimed any measure aimed at measure aimed at preventing aimed at preventing an at preventing an ai preventing an ai system an ai system in ai system in the system in the supply in the supply chain the supply chain being supply chain being made chain being made available being made available on made available on the available on the market on the market ‘performance the market ‘performance of market ‘performance of an ‘performance of an ai of an ai system’ an ai system’ means ai system’ means the system’ means the ability means the ability of the ability of an ability of an ai of an ai system an ai system to ai system to achieve system to achieve its to achieve its intended achieve its intended purpose its intended purpose ‘conformity intended purpose ‘conformity assessment’ purpose ‘conformity assessment’ means ‘conformity assessment’ means the assessment’ means the process means the process of the process of verifying process of verifying whether of verifying whether the verifying whether the requirements whether the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in title out in title iii in title iii chapter title iii chapter of iii chapter of this chapter of this regulation of this regulation relating this regulation relating to regulation relating to a relating to a high-risk to a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system have ai system have been system have been fulfilled have been fulfilled tree..b been fulfilled tree..b rbek fulfilled tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘notifying rbek en ‘notifying authority’ en ‘notifying authority’ means ‘notifying authority’ means the authority’ means the national means the national authority the national authority responsible national authority responsible for authority responsible for setting responsible for setting up for setting up and setting up and carrying up and carrying out and carrying out the carrying out the necessary out the necessary procedures the necessary procedures for necessary procedures for the procedures for the assessment for the assessment designation the assessment designation and assessment designation and notification designation and notification of and notification of conformity notification of conformity assessment of conformity assessment bodies conformity assessment bodies and assessment bodies and for bodies and for their and for their monitoring for their monitoring ‘conformity their monitoring ‘conformity assessment monitoring ‘conformity assessment body’ ‘conformity assessment body’ means assessment body’ means a body’ means a body means a body that a body that performs body that performs third-party that performs third-party conformity performs third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment activities conformity assessment activities including assessment activities including testing activities including testing certification including testing certification and testing certification and inspection certification and inspection ‘notified and inspection ‘notified body’ inspection ‘notified body’ means ‘notified body’ means a body’ means a conformity means a conformity assessment a conformity assessment body conformity assessment body designated assessment body designated in body designated in accordance designated in accordance with in accordance with this accordance with this regulation with this regulation and this regulation and other regulation and other relevant and other relevant union other relevant union harmonisation relevant union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation ‘substantial harmonisation legislation ‘substantial modification’ legislation ‘substantial modification’ means ‘substantial modification’ means a modification’ means a change means a change to a change to the change to the ai to the ai system the ai system following ai system following its system following its placing following its placing on its placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service which into service which affects service which affects the which affects the compliance affects the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the ai of the ai system the ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in title out in title iii in title iii chapter title iii chapter of iii chapter of this chapter of this regulation of this regulation or this regulation or a regulation or a modification or a modification to a modification to the modification to the intended to the intended purpose the intended purpose for intended purpose for which purpose for which the for which the ai which the ai system the ai system has ai system has been system has been assessed.
for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that continue continue to to learn learn after after being being placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service changes changes to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and its its performance performance that that have have been been pre-determined pre-determined by by the the provider provider at at the the moment moment of of the the initial initial conformity conformity assessment assessment and and are are part part of of the the information information contained contained in in the the technical technical documentation documentation referred referred to to in in point point f f of of annex annex iv iv shall shall not not constitute constitute a a substantial substantial modification.
for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that continue that continue to continue to learn to learn after learn after being after being placed being placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service changes service changes to changes to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and its and its performance its performance that performance that have that have been have been pre-determined been pre-determined by pre-determined by the by the provider the provider at provider at the at the moment the moment of moment of the of the initial the initial conformity initial conformity assessment conformity assessment and assessment and are and are part are part of part of the of the information the information contained information contained in contained in the in the technical the technical documentation technical documentation referred documentation referred to referred to in to in point in point f point f of f of annex of annex iv annex iv shall iv shall not shall not constitute not constitute a constitute a substantial a substantial modification.
for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that continue systems that continue to that continue to learn continue to learn after to learn after being learn after being placed after being placed on being placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service changes into service changes to service changes to the changes to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and its system and its performance and its performance that its performance that have performance that have been that have been pre-determined have been pre-determined by been pre-determined by the pre-determined by the provider by the provider at the provider at the provider at the moment at the moment of the moment of the moment of the initial of the initial conformity the initial conformity assessment initial conformity assessment and conformity assessment and are assessment and are part and are part of are part of the part of the information of the information contained the information contained in information contained in the contained in the technical in the technical documentation the technical documentation referred technical documentation referred to documentation referred to in referred to in point to in point f in point f of point f of annex f of annex iv of annex iv shall annex iv shall not iv shall not constitute shall not constitute a not constitute a substantial constitute a substantial modification.
‘ce marking marking of of conformity’ conformity’ ce ce marking marking means means a a marking marking by by which which a a provider provider indicates indicates that that an an ai ai system system is is in in conformity conformity with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in title title iii iii chapter chapter or or in in article article b b of of this this regulation regulation and and other other applicable applicable union union legal legal act act harmonising harmonising the the conditions conditions for for the the marketing marketing of of products products ‘union ‘union harmonisation harmonisation legislation’ legislation’ providing providing for for its its affixing affixing ‘post-market ‘post-market monitoring monitoring system’ system’ means means all all activities activities carried carried out out by by providers providers of of ai ai systems systems to to collect collect and and review review experience experience gained gained from from the the use use of of ai ai systems systems they they place place on on the the market market or or put put into into service service for for the the purpose purpose of of identifying identifying any any need need to to immediately immediately apply apply any any necessary necessary corrective corrective or or preventive preventive actions actions ‘market ‘market surveillance surveillance authority’ authority’ means means the the national national authority authority carrying carrying out out the the activities activities and and taking taking the the measures measures pursuant pursuant to to regulation regulation eu eu tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘harmonised ‘harmonised standard’ standard’ means means a a european european standard standard as as defined defined in in article article c c of of regulation regulation eu eu no no ‘common ‘common specification’ specification’ means means a a set set of of technical technical specifications specifications as as defined defined in in point point of of article article of of regulation regulation eu eu no no providing providing means means to to comply comply with with certain certain requirements requirements established established under under this this regulation regulation ‘training ‘training data’ data’ means means data data used used for for training training an an ai ai system system through through fitting fitting its its learnable learnable parameters parameters ‘validation ‘validation data’ data’ means means data data used used for for providing providing an an evaluation evaluation of of the the trained trained ai ai system system and and for for tuning tuning its its non-learnable non-learnable parameters parameters and and its its learning learning process process among among other other things things in in order order to to prevent prevent overfitting overfitting whereas whereas the the validation validation dataset dataset can can be be a a separate separate dataset dataset or or part part of of the the training training dataset dataset either either as as a a fixed fixed or or variable variable split split ‘testing ‘testing data’ data’ means means data data used used for for providing providing an an independent independent evaluation evaluation of of the the trained trained and and validated validated ai ai system system in in order order to to confirm confirm the the expected expected performance performance of of that that system system before before its its placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service ‘input ‘input data’ data’ means means data data provided provided to to or or directly directly acquired acquired by by an an ai ai system system on on the the basis basis of of which which the the system system produces produces an an output output ‘biometric ‘biometric data’ data’ means means personal personal data data resulting resulting from from specific specific technical technical processing processing relating relating to to the the physical physical physiological physiological or or behavioural behavioural characteristics characteristics of of a a natural natural person person such such as as facial facial images images or or dactyloscopic dactyloscopic data data ‘emotion ‘emotion recognition recognition system’ system’ means means an an ai ai system system for for the the purpose purpose of of identifying identifying or or inferring inferring psychological psychological states states emotions emotions or or intentions intentions of of natural natural persons persons on on the the basis basis of of their their biometric biometric data data ‘biometric ‘biometric categorisation categorisation system’ system’ means means an an ai ai system system for for the the purpose purpose of of assigning assigning natural natural persons persons to to specific specific categories categories on on the the basis basis of of their their biometric biometric data data tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘remote ‘remote biometric biometric identification identification system’ system’ means means an an ai ai system system for for the the purpose purpose of of identifying identifying natural natural persons persons typically typically at at a a distance distance without without their their active active involvement involvement through through the the comparison comparison of of a a person’s person’s biometric biometric data data with with the the biometric biometric data data contained contained in in a a reference reference data data repository repository ‘‘real-time’ ‘‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system’ system’ means means a a remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system system whereby whereby the the capturing capturing of of biometric biometric data data the the comparison comparison and and the the identification identification all all occur occur instantaneously instantaneously or or near near instantaneously instantaneously deleted deleted ‘publicly ‘publicly accessible accessible space’ space’ means means any any publicly publicly or or privately privately owned owned physical physical place place accessible accessible to to an an undetermined undetermined number number of of natural natural persons persons regardless regardless of of whether whether certain certain conditions conditions or or circumstances circumstances for for access access have have been been predetermined predetermined and and regardless regardless of of the the potential potential capacity capacity restrictions restrictions ‘law ‘law enforcement enforcement authority’ authority’ means means a a any any public public authority authority competent competent for for the the prevention prevention investigation investigation detection detection or or prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences offences or or the the execution execution of of criminal criminal penalties penalties including including the the safeguarding safeguarding against against and and the the prevention prevention of of threats threats to to public public security security or or b b any any other other body body or or entity entity entrusted entrusted by by member member state state law law to to exercise exercise public public authority authority and and public public powers powers for for the the purposes purposes of of the the prevention prevention investigation investigation detection detection or or prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences offences or or the the execution execution of of criminal criminal penalties penalties including including the the safeguarding safeguarding against against and and the the prevention prevention of of threats threats to to public public security security ‘law ‘law enforcement’ enforcement’ means means activities activities carried carried out out by by law law enforcement enforcement authorities authorities or or on on their their behalf behalf for for the the prevention prevention investigation investigation detection detection or or prosecution prosecution of of criminal criminal offences offences or or the the execution execution of of criminal criminal penalties penalties including including the the safeguarding safeguarding against against and and the the prevention prevention of of threats threats to to public public security security deleted deleted tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘national ‘national competent competent authority’ authority’ means means any any of of the the following following the the notifying notifying authority authority and and the the market market surveillance surveillance authority.
‘ce marking of marking of conformity’ of conformity’ ce conformity’ ce marking ce marking means marking means a means a marking a marking by marking by which by which a which a provider a provider indicates provider indicates that indicates that an that an ai an ai system ai system is system is in is in conformity in conformity with conformity with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in title in title iii title iii chapter iii chapter or chapter or in or in article in article b article b of b of this of this regulation this regulation and regulation and other and other applicable other applicable union applicable union legal union legal act legal act harmonising act harmonising the harmonising the conditions the conditions for conditions for the for the marketing the marketing of marketing of products of products ‘union products ‘union harmonisation ‘union harmonisation legislation’ harmonisation legislation’ providing legislation’ providing for providing for its for its affixing its affixing ‘post-market affixing ‘post-market monitoring ‘post-market monitoring system’ monitoring system’ means system’ means all means all activities all activities carried activities carried out carried out by out by providers by providers of providers of ai of ai systems ai systems to systems to collect to collect and collect and review and review experience review experience gained experience gained from gained from the from the use the use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems they systems they place they place on place on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service for service for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of identifying of identifying any identifying any need any need to need to immediately to immediately apply immediately apply any apply any necessary any necessary corrective necessary corrective or corrective or preventive or preventive actions preventive actions ‘market actions ‘market surveillance ‘market surveillance authority’ surveillance authority’ means authority’ means the means the national the national authority national authority carrying authority carrying out carrying out the out the activities the activities and activities and taking and taking the taking the measures the measures pursuant measures pursuant to pursuant to regulation to regulation eu regulation eu tree..b eu tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘harmonised en ‘harmonised standard’ ‘harmonised standard’ means standard’ means a means a european a european standard european standard as standard as defined as defined in defined in article in article c article c of c of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu no eu no ‘common no ‘common specification’ ‘common specification’ means specification’ means a means a set a set of set of technical of technical specifications technical specifications as specifications as defined as defined in defined in point in point of point of article of article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu no eu no providing no providing means providing means to means to comply to comply with comply with certain with certain requirements certain requirements established requirements established under established under this under this regulation this regulation ‘training regulation ‘training data’ ‘training data’ means data’ means data means data used data used for used for training for training an training an ai an ai system ai system through system through fitting through fitting its fitting its learnable its learnable parameters learnable parameters ‘validation parameters ‘validation data’ ‘validation data’ means data’ means data means data used data used for used for providing for providing an providing an evaluation an evaluation of evaluation of the of the trained the trained ai trained ai system ai system and system and for and for tuning for tuning its tuning its non-learnable its non-learnable parameters non-learnable parameters and parameters and its and its learning its learning process learning process among process among other among other things other things in things in order in order to order to prevent to prevent overfitting prevent overfitting whereas overfitting whereas the whereas the validation the validation dataset validation dataset can dataset can be can be a be a separate a separate dataset separate dataset or dataset or part or part of part of the of the training the training dataset training dataset either dataset either as either as a as a fixed a fixed or fixed or variable or variable split variable split ‘testing split ‘testing data’ ‘testing data’ means data’ means data means data used data used for used for providing for providing an providing an independent an independent evaluation independent evaluation of evaluation of the of the trained the trained and trained and validated and validated ai validated ai system ai system in system in order in order to order to confirm to confirm the confirm the expected the expected performance expected performance of performance of that of that system that system before system before its before its placing its placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service ‘input service ‘input data’ ‘input data’ means data’ means data means data provided data provided to provided to or to or directly or directly acquired directly acquired by acquired by an by an ai an ai system ai system on system on the on the basis the basis of basis of which of which the which the system the system produces system produces an produces an output an output ‘biometric output ‘biometric data’ ‘biometric data’ means data’ means personal means personal data personal data resulting data resulting from resulting from specific from specific technical specific technical processing technical processing relating processing relating to relating to the to the physical the physical physiological physical physiological or physiological or behavioural or behavioural characteristics behavioural characteristics of characteristics of a of a natural a natural person natural person such person such as such as facial as facial images facial images or images or dactyloscopic or dactyloscopic data dactyloscopic data ‘emotion data ‘emotion recognition ‘emotion recognition system’ recognition system’ means system’ means an means an ai an ai system ai system for system for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of identifying of identifying or identifying or inferring or inferring psychological inferring psychological states psychological states emotions states emotions or emotions or intentions or intentions of intentions of natural of natural persons natural persons on persons on the on the basis the basis of basis of their of their biometric their biometric data biometric data ‘biometric data ‘biometric categorisation ‘biometric categorisation system’ categorisation system’ means system’ means an means an ai an ai system ai system for system for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of assigning of assigning natural assigning natural persons natural persons to persons to specific to specific categories specific categories on categories on the on the basis the basis of basis of their of their biometric their biometric data biometric data tree..b data tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘remote en ‘remote biometric ‘remote biometric identification biometric identification system’ identification system’ means system’ means an means an ai an ai system ai system for system for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of identifying of identifying natural identifying natural persons natural persons typically persons typically at typically at a at a distance a distance without distance without their without their active their active involvement active involvement through involvement through the through the comparison the comparison of comparison of a of a person’s a person’s biometric person’s biometric data biometric data with data with the with the biometric the biometric data biometric data contained data contained in contained in a in a reference a reference data reference data repository data repository ‘‘real-time’ repository ‘‘real-time’ remote ‘‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system’ identification system’ means system’ means a means a remote a remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system identification system whereby system whereby the whereby the capturing the capturing of capturing of biometric of biometric data biometric data the data the comparison the comparison and comparison and the and the identification the identification all identification all occur all occur instantaneously occur instantaneously or instantaneously or near or near instantaneously near instantaneously deleted instantaneously deleted ‘publicly deleted ‘publicly accessible ‘publicly accessible space’ accessible space’ means space’ means any means any publicly any publicly or publicly or privately or privately owned privately owned physical owned physical place physical place accessible place accessible to accessible to an to an undetermined an undetermined number undetermined number of number of natural of natural persons natural persons regardless persons regardless of regardless of whether of whether certain whether certain conditions certain conditions or conditions or circumstances or circumstances for circumstances for access for access have access have been have been predetermined been predetermined and predetermined and regardless and regardless of regardless of the of the potential the potential capacity potential capacity restrictions capacity restrictions ‘law restrictions ‘law enforcement ‘law enforcement authority’ enforcement authority’ means authority’ means a means a any a any public any public authority public authority competent authority competent for competent for the for the prevention the prevention investigation prevention investigation detection investigation detection or detection or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences criminal offences or offences or the or the execution the execution of execution of criminal of criminal penalties criminal penalties including penalties including the including the safeguarding the safeguarding against safeguarding against and against and the and the prevention the prevention of prevention of threats of threats to threats to public to public security public security or security or b or b any b any other any other body other body or body or entity or entity entrusted entity entrusted by entrusted by member by member state member state law state law to law to exercise to exercise public exercise public authority public authority and authority and public and public powers public powers for powers for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of the of the prevention the prevention investigation prevention investigation detection investigation detection or detection or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences criminal offences or offences or the or the execution the execution of execution of criminal of criminal penalties criminal penalties including penalties including the including the safeguarding the safeguarding against safeguarding against and against and the and the prevention the prevention of prevention of threats of threats to threats to public to public security public security ‘law security ‘law enforcement’ ‘law enforcement’ means enforcement’ means activities means activities carried activities carried out carried out by out by law by law enforcement law enforcement authorities enforcement authorities or authorities or on or on their on their behalf their behalf for behalf for the for the prevention the prevention investigation prevention investigation detection investigation detection or detection or prosecution or prosecution of prosecution of criminal of criminal offences criminal offences or offences or the or the execution the execution of execution of criminal of criminal penalties criminal penalties including penalties including the including the safeguarding the safeguarding against safeguarding against and against and the and the prevention the prevention of prevention of threats of threats to threats to public to public security public security deleted security deleted tree..b deleted tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘national en ‘national competent ‘national competent authority’ competent authority’ means authority’ means any means any of any of the of the following the following the following the notifying the notifying authority notifying authority and authority and the and the market the market surveillance market surveillance authority.
‘ce marking of conformity’ marking of conformity’ ce of conformity’ ce marking conformity’ ce marking means ce marking means a marking means a marking means a marking by a marking by which marking by which a by which a provider which a provider indicates a provider indicates that provider indicates that an indicates that an ai that an ai system an ai system is ai system is in system is in conformity is in conformity with in conformity with the conformity with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in title out in title iii in title iii chapter title iii chapter or iii chapter or in chapter or in article or in article b in article b of article b of this b of this regulation of this regulation and this regulation and other regulation and other applicable and other applicable union other applicable union legal applicable union legal act union legal act harmonising legal act harmonising the act harmonising the conditions harmonising the conditions for the conditions for the conditions for the marketing for the marketing of the marketing of products marketing of products ‘union of products ‘union harmonisation products ‘union harmonisation legislation’ ‘union harmonisation legislation’ providing harmonisation legislation’ providing for legislation’ providing for its providing for its affixing for its affixing ‘post-market its affixing ‘post-market monitoring affixing ‘post-market monitoring system’ ‘post-market monitoring system’ means monitoring system’ means all system’ means all activities means all activities carried all activities carried out activities carried out by carried out by providers out by providers of by providers of ai providers of ai systems of ai systems to ai systems to collect systems to collect and to collect and review collect and review experience and review experience gained review experience gained from experience gained from the gained from the use from the use of the use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems they ai systems they place systems they place on they place on the place on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service for into service for the service for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of identifying purpose of identifying any of identifying any need identifying any need to any need to immediately need to immediately apply to immediately apply any immediately apply any necessary apply any necessary corrective any necessary corrective or necessary corrective or preventive corrective or preventive actions or preventive actions ‘market preventive actions ‘market surveillance actions ‘market surveillance authority’ ‘market surveillance authority’ means surveillance authority’ means the authority’ means the national means the national authority the national authority carrying national authority carrying out authority carrying out the carrying out the activities out the activities and the activities and taking activities and taking the and taking the measures taking the measures pursuant the measures pursuant to measures pursuant to regulation pursuant to regulation eu to regulation eu tree..b regulation eu tree..b rbek eu tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘harmonised rbek en ‘harmonised standard’ en ‘harmonised standard’ means ‘harmonised standard’ means a standard’ means a european means a european standard a european standard as european standard as defined standard as defined in as defined in article defined in article c in article c of article c of regulation c of regulation eu of regulation eu no regulation eu no ‘common eu no ‘common specification’ no ‘common specification’ means ‘common specification’ means a specification’ means a set means a set of a set of technical set of technical specifications of technical specifications as technical specifications as defined specifications as defined in as defined in point defined in point of in point of article point of article of of article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu no regulation eu no providing eu no providing means no providing means to providing means to comply means to comply with to comply with certain comply with certain requirements with certain requirements established certain requirements established under requirements established under this established under this regulation under this regulation ‘training this regulation ‘training data’ regulation ‘training data’ means ‘training data’ means data data’ means data used means data used for data used for training used for training an for training an ai training an ai system an ai system through ai system through fitting system through fitting its through fitting its learnable fitting its learnable parameters its learnable parameters ‘validation learnable parameters ‘validation data’ parameters ‘validation data’ means ‘validation data’ means data data’ means data used means data used for data used for providing used for providing an for providing an evaluation providing an evaluation of an evaluation of the evaluation of the trained of the trained ai the trained ai system trained ai system and ai system and for system and for tuning and for tuning its for tuning its non-learnable tuning its non-learnable parameters its non-learnable parameters and non-learnable parameters and its parameters and its learning and its learning process its learning process among learning process among other process among other things among other things in other things in order things in order to in order to prevent order to prevent overfitting to prevent overfitting whereas prevent overfitting whereas the overfitting whereas the validation whereas the validation dataset the validation dataset can validation dataset can be dataset can be a can be a separate be a separate dataset a separate dataset or separate dataset or part dataset or part of or part of the part of the training of the training dataset the training dataset either training dataset either as dataset either as a either as a fixed as a fixed or a fixed or variable fixed or variable split or variable split ‘testing variable split ‘testing data’ split ‘testing data’ means ‘testing data’ means data data’ means data used means data used for data used for providing used for providing an for providing an independent providing an independent evaluation an independent evaluation of independent evaluation of the evaluation of the trained of the trained and the trained and validated trained and validated ai and validated ai system validated ai system in ai system in order system in order to in order to confirm order to confirm the to confirm the expected confirm the expected performance the expected performance of expected performance of that performance of that system of that system before that system before its system before its placing before its placing on its placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service ‘input into service ‘input data’ service ‘input data’ means ‘input data’ means data data’ means data provided means data provided to data provided to or provided to or directly to or directly acquired or directly acquired by directly acquired by an acquired by an ai by an ai system an ai system on ai system on the system on the basis on the basis of the basis of which basis of which the of which the system which the system produces the system produces an system produces an output produces an output ‘biometric an output ‘biometric data’ output ‘biometric data’ means ‘biometric data’ means personal data’ means personal data means personal data resulting personal data resulting from data resulting from specific resulting from specific technical from specific technical processing specific technical processing relating technical processing relating to processing relating to the relating to the physical to the physical physiological the physical physiological or physical physiological or behavioural physiological or behavioural characteristics or behavioural characteristics of behavioural characteristics of a characteristics of a natural of a natural person a natural person such natural person such as person such as facial such as facial images as facial images or facial images or dactyloscopic images or dactyloscopic data or dactyloscopic data ‘emotion dactyloscopic data ‘emotion recognition data ‘emotion recognition system’ ‘emotion recognition system’ means recognition system’ means an system’ means an ai means an ai system an ai system for ai system for the system for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of identifying purpose of identifying or of identifying or inferring identifying or inferring psychological or inferring psychological states inferring psychological states emotions psychological states emotions or states emotions or intentions emotions or intentions of or intentions of natural intentions of natural persons of natural persons on natural persons on the persons on the basis on the basis of the basis of their basis of their biometric of their biometric data their biometric data ‘biometric biometric data ‘biometric categorisation data ‘biometric categorisation system’ ‘biometric categorisation system’ means categorisation system’ means an system’ means an ai means an ai system an ai system for ai system for the system for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of assigning purpose of assigning natural of assigning natural persons assigning natural persons to natural persons to specific persons to specific categories to specific categories on specific categories on the categories on the basis on the basis of the basis of their basis of their biometric of their biometric data their biometric data tree..b biometric data tree..b rbek data tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘remote rbek en ‘remote biometric en ‘remote biometric identification ‘remote biometric identification system’ biometric identification system’ means identification system’ means an system’ means an ai means an ai system an ai system for ai system for the system for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of identifying purpose of identifying natural of identifying natural persons identifying natural persons typically natural persons typically at persons typically at a typically at a distance at a distance without a distance without their distance without their active without their active involvement their active involvement through active involvement through the involvement through the comparison through the comparison of the comparison of a comparison of a person’s of a person’s biometric a person’s biometric data person’s biometric data with biometric data with the data with the biometric with the biometric data the biometric data contained biometric data contained in data contained in a contained in a reference in a reference data a reference data repository reference data repository ‘‘real-time’ data repository ‘‘real-time’ remote repository ‘‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system’ biometric identification system’ means identification system’ means a system’ means a remote means a remote biometric a remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system biometric identification system whereby identification system whereby the system whereby the capturing whereby the capturing of the capturing of biometric capturing of biometric data of biometric data the biometric data the comparison data the comparison and the comparison and the comparison and the identification and the identification all the identification all occur identification all occur instantaneously all occur instantaneously or occur instantaneously or near instantaneously or near instantaneously or near instantaneously deleted near instantaneously deleted ‘publicly instantaneously deleted ‘publicly accessible deleted ‘publicly accessible space’ ‘publicly accessible space’ means accessible space’ means any space’ means any publicly means any publicly or any publicly or privately publicly or privately owned or privately owned physical privately owned physical place owned physical place accessible physical place accessible to place accessible to an accessible to an undetermined to an undetermined number an undetermined number of undetermined number of natural number of natural persons of natural persons regardless natural persons regardless of persons regardless of whether regardless of whether certain of whether certain conditions whether certain conditions or certain conditions or circumstances conditions or circumstances for or circumstances for access circumstances for access have for access have been access have been predetermined have been predetermined and been predetermined and regardless predetermined and regardless of and regardless of the regardless of the potential of the potential capacity the potential capacity restrictions potential capacity restrictions ‘law capacity restrictions ‘law enforcement restrictions ‘law enforcement authority’ ‘law enforcement authority’ means enforcement authority’ means a authority’ means a any means a any public a any public authority any public authority competent public authority competent for authority competent for the competent for the prevention for the prevention investigation the prevention investigation detection prevention investigation detection or investigation detection or prosecution detection or prosecution of or prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences of criminal offences or criminal offences or the offences or the execution or the execution of the execution of criminal execution of criminal penalties of criminal penalties including criminal penalties including the penalties including the safeguarding including the safeguarding against the safeguarding against and safeguarding against and the against and the prevention and the prevention of the prevention of threats prevention of threats to of threats to public threats to public security to public security or public security or b security or b any or b any other b any other body any other body or other body or entity body or entity entrusted or entity entrusted by entity entrusted by member entrusted by member state by member state law member state law to state law to exercise law to exercise public to exercise public authority exercise public authority and public authority and public authority and public powers and public powers for public powers for the powers for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the prevention of the prevention investigation the prevention investigation detection prevention investigation detection or investigation detection or prosecution detection or prosecution of or prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences of criminal offences or criminal offences or the offences or the execution or the execution of the execution of criminal execution of criminal penalties of criminal penalties including criminal penalties including the penalties including the safeguarding including the safeguarding against the safeguarding against and safeguarding against and the against and the prevention and the prevention of the prevention of threats prevention of threats to of threats to public threats to public security to public security ‘law public security ‘law enforcement’ security ‘law enforcement’ means ‘law enforcement’ means activities enforcement’ means activities carried means activities carried out activities carried out by carried out by law out by law enforcement by law enforcement authorities law enforcement authorities or enforcement authorities or on authorities or on their or on their behalf on their behalf for their behalf for the behalf for the prevention for the prevention investigation the prevention investigation detection prevention investigation detection or investigation detection or prosecution detection or prosecution of or prosecution of criminal prosecution of criminal offences of criminal offences or criminal offences or the offences or the execution or the execution of the execution of criminal execution of criminal penalties of criminal penalties including criminal penalties including the penalties including the safeguarding including the safeguarding against the safeguarding against and safeguarding against and the against and the prevention and the prevention of the prevention of threats prevention of threats to of threats to public threats to public security to public security deleted public security deleted tree..b security deleted tree..b rbek deleted tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘national rbek en ‘national competent en ‘national competent authority’ ‘national competent authority’ means competent authority’ means any authority’ means any of means any of the any of the following of the following the the following the notifying following the notifying authority the notifying authority and notifying authority and the authority and the market and the market surveillance the market surveillance authority.
as regards regards ai ai systems systems put put into into service service or or used used by by eu eu institutions institutions agencies agencies offices offices and and bodies bodies the the european european data data protection protection supervisor supervisor shall shall fulfil fulfil the the responsibilities responsibilities that that in in the the member member states states are are entrusted entrusted to to the the national national competent competent authority authority and and as as relevant relevant any any reference reference to to national national competent competent authorities authorities or or market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities in in this this regulation regulation shall shall be be understood understood as as referring referring to to the the european european data data protection protection supervisor supervisor ‘serious ‘serious incident’ incident’ means means any any incident incident or or malfunctioning malfunctioning of of an an ai ai system system that that directly directly or or indirectly indirectly leads leads to to any any of of the the following following a a the the death death of of a a person person or or serious serious damage damage to to a a person’s person’s health health b b a a serious serious and and irreversible irreversible disruption disruption of of the the management management and and operation operation of of critical critical infrastructure infrastructure c c breach breach of of obligations obligations under under union union law law intended intended to to protect protect fundamental fundamental rights rights d d serious serious damage damage to to property property or or the the environment.
as regards ai regards ai systems ai systems put systems put into put into service into service or service or used or used by used by eu by eu institutions eu institutions agencies institutions agencies offices agencies offices and offices and bodies and bodies the bodies the european the european data european data protection data protection supervisor protection supervisor shall supervisor shall fulfil shall fulfil the fulfil the responsibilities the responsibilities that responsibilities that in that in the in the member the member states member states are states are entrusted are entrusted to entrusted to the to the national the national competent national competent authority competent authority and authority and as and as relevant as relevant any relevant any reference any reference to reference to national to national competent national competent authorities competent authorities or authorities or market or market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities in authorities in this in this regulation this regulation shall regulation shall be shall be understood be understood as understood as referring as referring to referring to the to the european the european data european data protection data protection supervisor protection supervisor ‘serious supervisor ‘serious incident’ ‘serious incident’ means incident’ means any means any incident any incident or incident or malfunctioning or malfunctioning of malfunctioning of an of an ai an ai system ai system that system that directly that directly or directly or indirectly or indirectly leads indirectly leads to leads to any to any of any of the of the following the following a following a the a the death the death of death of a of a person a person or person or serious or serious damage serious damage to damage to a to a person’s a person’s health person’s health b health b a b a serious a serious and serious and irreversible and irreversible disruption irreversible disruption of disruption of the of the management the management and management and operation and operation of operation of critical of critical infrastructure critical infrastructure c infrastructure c breach c breach of breach of obligations of obligations under obligations under union under union law union law intended law intended to intended to protect to protect fundamental protect fundamental rights fundamental rights d rights d serious d serious damage serious damage to damage to property to property or property or the or the environment.
as regards ai systems regards ai systems put ai systems put into systems put into service put into service or into service or used service or used by or used by eu used by eu institutions by eu institutions agencies eu institutions agencies offices institutions agencies offices and agencies offices and bodies offices and bodies the and bodies the european bodies the european data the european data protection european data protection supervisor data protection supervisor shall protection supervisor shall fulfil supervisor shall fulfil the shall fulfil the responsibilities fulfil the responsibilities that the responsibilities that in responsibilities that in the that in the member in the member states the member states are member states are entrusted states are entrusted to are entrusted to the entrusted to the national to the national competent the national competent authority national competent authority and competent authority and as authority and as relevant and as relevant any as relevant any reference relevant any reference to any reference to national reference to national competent to national competent authorities national competent authorities or competent authorities or market authorities or market surveillance or market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities in surveillance authorities in this authorities in this regulation in this regulation shall this regulation shall be regulation shall be understood shall be understood as be understood as referring understood as referring to as referring to the referring to the european to the european data the european data protection european data protection supervisor data protection supervisor ‘serious protection supervisor ‘serious incident’ supervisor ‘serious incident’ means ‘serious incident’ means any incident’ means any incident means any incident or any incident or malfunctioning incident or malfunctioning of or malfunctioning of an malfunctioning of an ai of an ai system an ai system that ai system that directly system that directly or that directly or indirectly directly or indirectly leads or indirectly leads to indirectly leads to any leads to any of to any of the any of the following of the following a the following a the following a the death a the death of the death of a death of a person of a person or a person or serious person or serious damage or serious damage to serious damage to a damage to a person’s to a person’s health a person’s health b person’s health b a health b a serious b a serious and a serious and irreversible serious and irreversible disruption and irreversible disruption of irreversible disruption of the disruption of the management of the management and the management and operation management and operation of and operation of critical operation of critical infrastructure of critical infrastructure c critical infrastructure c breach infrastructure c breach of c breach of obligations breach of obligations under of obligations under union obligations under union law under union law intended union law intended to law intended to protect intended to protect fundamental to protect fundamental rights protect fundamental rights d fundamental rights d serious rights d serious damage d serious damage to serious damage to property damage to property or to property or the property or the environment.
‘critical infrastructure’ infrastructure’ means means an an asset asset system system or or part part thereof thereof which which is is necessary necessary for for the the delivery delivery of of a a service service that that is is essential essential for for the the maintenance maintenance of of vital vital societal societal functions functions or or economic economic activities activities within within the the meaning meaning of of article article and and of of directive directive …..….. …..….. on on the the resilience resilience of of critical critical entities entities ‘personal ‘personal data’ data’ means means data data as as defined defined in in point point of of article article of of regulation regulation eu eu ‘non-personal ‘non-personal data’ data’ means means data data other other than than personal personal data data as as defined defined in in point point of of article article of of regulation regulation eu eu tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ‘testing ‘testing in in real real world world conditions’ conditions’ means means the the temporary temporary testing testing of of an an ai ai system system for for its its intended intended purpose purpose in in real real world world conditions conditions outside outside of of a a laboratory laboratory or or otherwise otherwise simulated simulated environment environment with with a a view view to to gathering gathering reliable reliable and and robust robust data data and and to to assessing assessing and and verifying verifying the the conformity conformity of of the the ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements of of this this regulation regulation testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions shall shall not not be be considered considered as as placing placing the the ai ai system system on on the the market market or or putting putting it it into into service service within within the the meaning meaning of of this this regulation regulation provided provided that that all all conditions conditions under under article article or or article article a a are are fulfilled fulfilled ‘real ‘real world world testing testing plan’ plan’ means means a a document document that that describes describes the the objectives objectives methodology methodology geographical geographical population population and and temporal temporal scope scope monitoring monitoring organisation organisation and and conduct conduct of of testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions ‘subject’ ‘subject’ for for the the purpose purpose of of real real world world testing testing means means a a natural natural person person who who participates participates in in testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions ‘informed ‘informed consent’ consent’ means means a a subjects subjects free free and and voluntary voluntary expression expression of of his his or or her her willingness willingness to to participate participate in in a a particular particular testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions after after having having been been informed informed of of all all aspects aspects of of the the testing testing that that are are relevant relevant to to the the subjects subjects decision decision to to participate participate in in the the case case of of minors minors and and of of incapacitated incapacitated subjects subjects the the informed informed consent consent shall shall be be given given by by their their legally legally designated designated representative representative ‘ai ‘ai regulatory regulatory sandbox’ sandbox’ means means a a concrete concrete framework framework set set up up by by a a national national competent competent authority authority which which offers offers providers providers or or prospective prospective providers providers of of ai ai systems systems the the possibility possibility to to develop develop train train validate validate and and test test where where appropriate appropriate in in real real world world conditions conditions an an innovative innovative ai ai system system pursuant pursuant to to a a specific specific plan plan for for a a limited limited time time under under regulatory regulatory supervision.
‘critical infrastructure’ means infrastructure’ means an means an asset an asset system asset system or system or part or part thereof part thereof which thereof which is which is necessary is necessary for necessary for the for the delivery the delivery of delivery of a of a service a service that service that is that is essential is essential for essential for the for the maintenance the maintenance of maintenance of vital of vital societal vital societal functions societal functions or functions or economic or economic activities economic activities within activities within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article and article and of and of directive of directive …..….. directive …..….. on …..….. on the on the resilience the resilience of resilience of critical of critical entities critical entities ‘personal entities ‘personal data’ ‘personal data’ means data’ means data means data as data as defined as defined in defined in point in point of point of article of article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu ‘non-personal eu ‘non-personal data’ ‘non-personal data’ means data’ means data means data other data other than other than personal than personal data personal data as data as defined as defined in defined in point in point of point of article of article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu tree..b eu tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ‘testing en ‘testing in ‘testing in real in real world real world conditions’ world conditions’ means conditions’ means the means the temporary the temporary testing temporary testing of testing of an of an ai an ai system ai system for system for its for its intended its intended purpose intended purpose in purpose in real in real world real world conditions world conditions outside conditions outside of outside of a of a laboratory a laboratory or laboratory or otherwise or otherwise simulated otherwise simulated environment simulated environment with environment with a with a view a view to view to gathering to gathering reliable gathering reliable and reliable and robust and robust data robust data and data and to and to assessing to assessing and assessing and verifying and verifying the verifying the conformity the conformity of conformity of the of the ai the ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements of requirements of this of this regulation this regulation testing regulation testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions shall conditions shall not shall not be not be considered be considered as considered as placing as placing the placing the ai the ai system ai system on system on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting it putting it into it into service into service within service within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of this of this regulation this regulation provided regulation provided that provided that all that all conditions all conditions under conditions under article under article or article or article or article a article a are a are fulfilled are fulfilled ‘real fulfilled ‘real world ‘real world testing world testing plan’ testing plan’ means plan’ means a means a document a document that document that describes that describes the describes the objectives the objectives methodology objectives methodology geographical methodology geographical population geographical population and population and temporal and temporal scope temporal scope monitoring scope monitoring organisation monitoring organisation and organisation and conduct and conduct of conduct of testing of testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions ‘subject’ conditions ‘subject’ for ‘subject’ for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of real of real world real world testing world testing means testing means a means a natural a natural person natural person who person who participates who participates in participates in testing in testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions ‘informed conditions ‘informed consent’ ‘informed consent’ means consent’ means a means a subjects a subjects free subjects free and free and voluntary and voluntary expression voluntary expression of expression of his of his or his or her or her willingness her willingness to willingness to participate to participate in participate in a in a particular a particular testing particular testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions after conditions after having after having been having been informed been informed of informed of all of all aspects all aspects of aspects of the of the testing the testing that testing that are that are relevant are relevant to relevant to the to the subjects the subjects decision subjects decision to decision to participate to participate in participate in the in the case the case of case of minors of minors and minors and of and of incapacitated of incapacitated subjects incapacitated subjects the subjects the informed the informed consent informed consent shall consent shall be shall be given be given by given by their by their legally their legally designated legally designated representative designated representative ‘ai representative ‘ai regulatory ‘ai regulatory sandbox’ regulatory sandbox’ means sandbox’ means a means a concrete a concrete framework concrete framework set framework set up set up by up by a by a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority which authority which offers which offers providers offers providers or providers or prospective or prospective providers prospective providers of providers of ai of ai systems ai systems the systems the possibility the possibility to possibility to develop to develop train develop train validate train validate and validate and test and test where test where appropriate where appropriate in appropriate in real in real world real world conditions world conditions an conditions an innovative an innovative ai innovative ai system ai system pursuant system pursuant to pursuant to a to a specific a specific plan specific plan for plan for a for a limited a limited time limited time under time under regulatory under regulatory supervision.
‘critical infrastructure’ means an infrastructure’ means an asset means an asset system an asset system or asset system or part system or part thereof or part thereof which part thereof which is thereof which is necessary which is necessary for is necessary for the necessary for the delivery for the delivery of the delivery of a delivery of a service of a service that a service that is service that is essential that is essential for is essential for the essential for the maintenance for the maintenance of the maintenance of vital maintenance of vital societal of vital societal functions vital societal functions or societal functions or economic functions or economic activities or economic activities within economic activities within the activities within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article and of article and of article and of directive and of directive …..….. of directive …..….. on directive …..….. on the …..….. on the resilience on the resilience of the resilience of critical resilience of critical entities of critical entities ‘personal critical entities ‘personal data’ entities ‘personal data’ means ‘personal data’ means data data’ means data as means data as defined data as defined in as defined in point defined in point of in point of article point of article of of article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu ‘non-personal regulation eu ‘non-personal data’ eu ‘non-personal data’ means ‘non-personal data’ means data data’ means data other means data other than data other than personal other than personal data than personal data as personal data as defined data as defined in as defined in point defined in point of in point of article point of article of of article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu tree..b regulation eu tree..b rbek eu tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ‘testing rbek en ‘testing in en ‘testing in real ‘testing in real world in real world conditions’ real world conditions’ means world conditions’ means the conditions’ means the temporary means the temporary testing the temporary testing of temporary testing of an testing of an ai of an ai system an ai system for ai system for its system for its intended for its intended purpose its intended purpose in intended purpose in real purpose in real world in real world conditions real world conditions outside world conditions outside of conditions outside of a outside of a laboratory of a laboratory or a laboratory or otherwise laboratory or otherwise simulated or otherwise simulated environment otherwise simulated environment with simulated environment with a environment with a view with a view to a view to gathering view to gathering reliable to gathering reliable and gathering reliable and robust reliable and robust data and robust data and robust data and to data and to assessing and to assessing and to assessing and verifying assessing and verifying the and verifying the conformity verifying the conformity of the conformity of the conformity of the ai of the ai system the ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements of the requirements of this requirements of this regulation of this regulation testing this regulation testing in regulation testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions shall world conditions shall not conditions shall not be shall not be considered not be considered as be considered as placing considered as placing the as placing the ai placing the ai system the ai system on ai system on the system on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting it or putting it into putting it into service it into service within into service within the service within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of this meaning of this regulation of this regulation provided this regulation provided that regulation provided that all provided that all conditions that all conditions under all conditions under article conditions under article or under article or article article or article a or article a are article a are fulfilled a are fulfilled ‘real are fulfilled ‘real world fulfilled ‘real world testing ‘real world testing plan’ world testing plan’ means testing plan’ means a plan’ means a document means a document that a document that describes document that describes the that describes the objectives describes the objectives methodology the objectives methodology geographical objectives methodology geographical population methodology geographical population and geographical population and temporal population and temporal scope and temporal scope monitoring temporal scope monitoring organisation scope monitoring organisation and monitoring organisation and conduct organisation and conduct of and conduct of testing conduct of testing in of testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions ‘subject’ world conditions ‘subject’ for conditions ‘subject’ for the ‘subject’ for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of real purpose of real world of real world testing real world testing means world testing means a testing means a natural means a natural person a natural person who natural person who participates person who participates in who participates in testing participates in testing in in testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions ‘informed world conditions ‘informed consent’ conditions ‘informed consent’ means ‘informed consent’ means a consent’ means a subjects means a subjects free a subjects free and subjects free and voluntary free and voluntary expression and voluntary expression of voluntary expression of his expression of his or of his or her his or her willingness or her willingness to her willingness to participate willingness to participate in to participate in a participate in a particular in a particular testing a particular testing in particular testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions after world conditions after having conditions after having been after having been informed having been informed of been informed of all informed of all aspects of all aspects of all aspects of the aspects of the testing of the testing that the testing that are testing that are relevant that are relevant to are relevant to the relevant to the subjects to the subjects decision the subjects decision to subjects decision to participate decision to participate in to participate in the participate in the case in the case of the case of minors case of minors and of minors and of minors and of incapacitated and of incapacitated subjects of incapacitated subjects the incapacitated subjects the informed subjects the informed consent the informed consent shall informed consent shall be consent shall be given shall be given by be given by their given by their legally by their legally designated their legally designated representative legally designated representative ‘ai designated representative ‘ai regulatory representative ‘ai regulatory sandbox’ ‘ai regulatory sandbox’ means regulatory sandbox’ means a sandbox’ means a concrete means a concrete framework a concrete framework set concrete framework set up framework set up by set up by a up by a national by a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority which competent authority which offers authority which offers providers which offers providers or offers providers or prospective providers or prospective providers or prospective providers of prospective providers of ai providers of ai systems of ai systems the ai systems the possibility systems the possibility to the possibility to develop possibility to develop train to develop train validate develop train validate and train validate and test validate and test where and test where appropriate test where appropriate in where appropriate in real appropriate in real world in real world conditions real world conditions an world conditions an innovative conditions an innovative ai an innovative ai system innovative ai system pursuant ai system pursuant to system pursuant to a pursuant to a specific to a specific plan a specific plan for specific plan for a plan for a limited for a limited time a limited time under limited time under regulatory time under regulatory supervision.
tree..b rbek rbek en en article article implementing implementing acts acts in in order order to to ensure ensure uniform uniform conditions conditions for for the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation as as regards regards machine machine learning learning approaches approaches and and logic- logic- and and knowledged knowledged based based approaches approaches referred referred to to in in article article the the commission commission may may adopt adopt implementing implementing acts acts to to specify specify the the technical technical elements elements of of those those approaches approaches taking taking into into account account market market and and technological technological developments.
tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article implementing article implementing acts implementing acts in acts in order in order to order to ensure to ensure uniform ensure uniform conditions uniform conditions for conditions for the for the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation as regulation as regards as regards machine regards machine learning machine learning approaches learning approaches and approaches and logic- and logic- and logic- and knowledged and knowledged based knowledged based approaches based approaches referred approaches referred to referred to in to in article in article the article the commission the commission may commission may adopt may adopt implementing adopt implementing acts implementing acts to acts to specify to specify the specify the technical the technical elements technical elements of elements of those of those approaches those approaches taking approaches taking into taking into account into account market account market and market and technological and technological developments.
tree..b rbek en article rbek en article implementing en article implementing acts article implementing acts in implementing acts in order acts in order to in order to ensure order to ensure uniform to ensure uniform conditions ensure uniform conditions for uniform conditions for the conditions for the implementation for the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation as this regulation as regards regulation as regards machine as regards machine learning regards machine learning approaches machine learning approaches and learning approaches and logic- approaches and logic- and and logic- and knowledged logic- and knowledged based and knowledged based approaches knowledged based approaches referred based approaches referred to approaches referred to in referred to in article to in article the in article the commission article the commission may the commission may adopt commission may adopt implementing may adopt implementing acts adopt implementing acts to implementing acts to specify acts to specify the to specify the technical specify the technical elements the technical elements of technical elements of those elements of those approaches of those approaches taking those approaches taking into approaches taking into account taking into account market into account market and account market and technological market and technological developments.
those implementing implementing acts acts shall shall be be adopted adopted in in accordance accordance with with the the examination examination procedure procedure referred referred to to in in article article .
those implementing acts implementing acts shall acts shall be shall be adopted be adopted in adopted in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the examination the examination procedure examination procedure referred procedure referred to referred to in to in article in article .
those implementing acts shall implementing acts shall be acts shall be adopted shall be adopted in be adopted in accordance adopted in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the examination with the examination procedure the examination procedure referred examination procedure referred to procedure referred to in referred to in article to in article .
title ia ia general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems article article a a compliance compliance of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems with with this this regulation regulation .
title ia general ia general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems article systems article a article a compliance a compliance of compliance of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems with systems with this with this regulation this regulation .
title ia general purpose ia general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems article ai systems article a systems article a compliance article a compliance of a compliance of general compliance of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems with ai systems with this systems with this regulation with this regulation .
without prejudice prejudice to to articles articles and and of of this this regulation regulation general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems shall shall only only comply comply with with the the requirements requirements and and obligations obligations set set out out in in article article b. b. .
without prejudice to prejudice to articles to articles and articles and of and of this of this regulation this regulation general regulation general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems shall systems shall only shall only comply only comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations set obligations set out set out in out in article in article b. article b. .
without prejudice to articles prejudice to articles and to articles and of articles and of this and of this regulation of this regulation general this regulation general purpose regulation general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems shall ai systems shall only systems shall only comply shall only comply with only comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements and the requirements and obligations requirements and obligations set and obligations set out obligations set out in set out in article out in article b. in article b. .
such requirements requirements and and obligations obligations shall shall apply apply irrespective irrespective of of whether whether the the general general purpose purpose ai ai system system is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service as as a a pre-trained pre-trained model model and and whether whether further further fine-tuning fine-tuning of of the the model model is is to to be be performed performed by by the the user user of of the the general general purpose purpose ai ai system.
such requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations shall obligations shall apply shall apply irrespective apply irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether the whether the general the general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system ai system is system is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service as service as a as a pre-trained a pre-trained model pre-trained model and model and whether and whether further whether further fine-tuning further fine-tuning of fine-tuning of the of the model the model is model is to is to be to be performed be performed by performed by the by the user the user of user of the of the general the general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system.
such requirements and obligations requirements and obligations shall and obligations shall apply obligations shall apply irrespective shall apply irrespective of apply irrespective of whether irrespective of whether the of whether the general whether the general purpose the general purpose ai general purpose ai system purpose ai system is ai system is placed system is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service as into service as a service as a pre-trained as a pre-trained model a pre-trained model and pre-trained model and whether model and whether further and whether further fine-tuning whether further fine-tuning of further fine-tuning of the fine-tuning of the model of the model is the model is to model is to be is to be performed to be performed by be performed by the performed by the user by the user of the user of the user of the general of the general purpose the general purpose ai general purpose ai system.
tree..b rbek rbek en en requirements requirements for for general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems and and obligations obligations for for providers providers of of such such article article b b systems systems .
tree..b rbek en rbek en requirements en requirements for requirements for general for general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems and systems and obligations and obligations for obligations for providers for providers of providers of such of such article such article b article b systems b systems .
tree..b rbek en requirements rbek en requirements for en requirements for general requirements for general purpose for general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems and ai systems and obligations systems and obligations for and obligations for providers obligations for providers of for providers of such providers of such article of such article b such article b systems article b systems .
general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems which which may may be be used used as as high high risk risk ai ai systems systems or or as as components components of of high high risk risk ai ai systems systems in in the the meaning meaning of of article article shall shall comply comply with with the the requirements requirements established established in in title title iii iii chapter chapter of of this this regulation regulation as as from from the the date date of of application application of of the the implementing implementing acts acts adopted adopted by by the the commission commission in in accordance accordance with with the the examination examination procedure procedure referred referred to to in in article article no no later later than than months months after after the the entry entry into into force force of of this this regulation.
general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems which systems which may which may be may be used be used as used as high as high risk high risk ai risk ai systems ai systems or systems or as or as components as components of components of high of high risk high risk ai risk ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article shall article shall comply shall comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements established requirements established in established in title in title iii title iii chapter iii chapter of chapter of this of this regulation this regulation as regulation as from as from the from the date the date of date of application of application of application of the of the implementing the implementing acts implementing acts adopted acts adopted by adopted by the by the commission the commission in commission in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the examination the examination procedure examination procedure referred procedure referred to referred to in to in article in article no article no later no later than later than months than months after months after the after the entry the entry into entry into force into force of force of this of this regulation.
general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems which ai systems which may systems which may be which may be used may be used as be used as high used as high risk as high risk ai high risk ai systems risk ai systems or ai systems or as systems or as components or as components of as components of high components of high risk of high risk ai high risk ai systems risk ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the meaning in the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article shall of article shall comply article shall comply with shall comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements established the requirements established in requirements established in title established in title iii in title iii chapter title iii chapter of iii chapter of this chapter of this regulation of this regulation as this regulation as from regulation as from the as from the date from the date of the date of application date of application of of application of the application of the implementing of the implementing acts the implementing acts adopted implementing acts adopted by acts adopted by the adopted by the commission by the commission in the commission in accordance commission in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the examination with the examination procedure the examination procedure referred examination procedure referred to procedure referred to in referred to in article to in article no in article no later article no later than no later than months later than months after than months after the months after the entry after the entry into the entry into force entry into force of into force of this force of this regulation.
those implementing implementing acts acts shall shall specify specify and and adapt adapt the the application application of of the the requirements requirements established established in in title title iii iii chapter chapter to to general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems in in the the light light of of their their characteristics characteristics technical technical feasibility feasibility specificities specificities of of the the ai ai value value chain chain and and of of market market and and technological technological developments.
those implementing acts implementing acts shall acts shall specify shall specify and specify and adapt and adapt the adapt the application the application of application of the of the requirements the requirements established requirements established in established in title in title iii title iii chapter iii chapter to chapter to general to general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems in systems in the in the light the light of light of their of their characteristics their characteristics technical characteristics technical feasibility technical feasibility specificities feasibility specificities of specificities of the of the ai the ai value ai value chain value chain and chain and of and of market of market and market and technological and technological developments.
those implementing acts shall implementing acts shall specify acts shall specify and shall specify and adapt specify and adapt the and adapt the application adapt the application of the application of the application of the requirements of the requirements established the requirements established in requirements established in title established in title iii in title iii chapter title iii chapter to iii chapter to general chapter to general purpose to general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems in ai systems in the systems in the light in the light of the light of their light of their characteristics of their characteristics technical their characteristics technical feasibility characteristics technical feasibility specificities technical feasibility specificities of feasibility specificities of the specificities of the ai of the ai value the ai value chain ai value chain and value chain and of chain and of market and of market and of market and technological market and technological developments.
when fulfilling fulfilling those those requirements requirements the the generally generally acknowledged acknowledged state state of of the the art art shall shall be be taken taken into into account.
when fulfilling those fulfilling those requirements those requirements the requirements the generally the generally acknowledged generally acknowledged state acknowledged state of state of the of the art the art shall art shall be shall be taken be taken into taken into account.
when fulfilling those requirements fulfilling those requirements the those requirements the generally requirements the generally acknowledged the generally acknowledged state generally acknowledged state of acknowledged state of the state of the art of the art shall the art shall be art shall be taken shall be taken into be taken into account.
providers of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall comply comply as as from from the the date date of of application application of of the the implementing implementing acts acts referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph with with the the obligations obligations set set out out in in articles articles aa aa e e f f g g i i j j and and .
providers of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall comply shall comply as comply as from as from the from the date the date of date of application of application of application of the of the implementing the implementing acts implementing acts referred acts referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph with paragraph with the with the obligations the obligations set obligations set out set out in out in articles in articles aa articles aa e aa e f e f g f g i g i j i j and j and .
providers of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems referred ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall comply paragraph shall comply as shall comply as from comply as from the as from the date from the date of the date of application date of application of of application of the application of the implementing of the implementing acts the implementing acts referred implementing acts referred to acts referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph with in paragraph with the paragraph with the obligations with the obligations set the obligations set out obligations set out in set out in articles out in articles aa in articles aa e articles aa e f aa e f g e f g i f g i j g i j and i j and .
for the the purpose purpose of of complying complying with with the the obligations obligations set set out out in in article article e e providers providers shall shall follow follow the the conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure based based on on internal internal control control set set out out in in annex annex vi vi points points and and .
for the purpose the purpose of purpose of complying of complying with complying with the with the obligations the obligations set obligations set out set out in out in article in article e article e providers e providers shall providers shall follow shall follow the follow the conformity the conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure based procedure based on based on internal on internal control internal control set control set out set out in out in annex in annex vi annex vi points vi points and points and .
for the purpose of the purpose of complying purpose of complying with of complying with the complying with the obligations with the obligations set the obligations set out obligations set out in set out in article out in article e in article e providers article e providers shall e providers shall follow providers shall follow the shall follow the conformity follow the conformity assessment the conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure based assessment procedure based on procedure based on internal based on internal control on internal control set internal control set out control set out in set out in annex out in annex vi in annex vi points annex vi points and vi points and .
providers of of such such systems systems shall shall also also keep keep the the technical technical documentation documentation referred referred to to in in article article at at the the disposal disposal of of the the national national competent competent authorities authorities for for a a period period ending ending ten ten years years after after the the general general purpose purpose ai ai system system is is placed placed on on the the union union market market or or put put into into service service in in the the union.
providers of such of such systems such systems shall systems shall also shall also keep also keep the keep the technical the technical documentation technical documentation referred documentation referred to referred to in to in article in article at article at the at the disposal the disposal of disposal of the of the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities for authorities for a for a period a period ending period ending ten ending ten years ten years after years after the after the general the general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system ai system is system is placed is placed on placed on the on the union the union market union market or market or put or put into put into service into service in service in the in the union.
providers of such systems of such systems shall such systems shall also systems shall also keep shall also keep the also keep the technical keep the technical documentation the technical documentation referred technical documentation referred to documentation referred to in referred to in article to in article at in article at the article at the disposal at the disposal of the disposal of the disposal of the national of the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities for competent authorities for a authorities for a period for a period ending a period ending ten period ending ten years ending ten years after ten years after the years after the general after the general purpose the general purpose ai general purpose ai system purpose ai system is ai system is placed system is placed on is placed on the placed on the union on the union market the union market or union market or put market or put into or put into service put into service in into service in the service in the union.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
providers of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems shall shall cooperate cooperate with with and and provide provide the the necessary necessary information information to to other other providers providers intending intending to to put put into into service service or or place place such such systems systems on on the the union union market market as as high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems or or as as components components of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems with with a a view view to to enabling enabling the the latter latter to to comply comply with with their their obligations obligations under under this this regulation.
providers of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems shall systems shall cooperate shall cooperate with cooperate with and with and provide and provide the provide the necessary the necessary information necessary information to information to other to other providers other providers intending providers intending to intending to put to put into put into service into service or service or place or place such place such systems such systems on systems on the on the union the union market union market as market as high-risk as high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems or systems or as or as components as components of components of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems with systems with a with a view a view to view to enabling to enabling the enabling the latter the latter to latter to comply to comply with comply with their with their obligations their obligations under obligations under this under this regulation.
providers of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems shall ai systems shall cooperate systems shall cooperate with shall cooperate with and cooperate with and provide with and provide the and provide the necessary provide the necessary information the necessary information to necessary information to other information to other providers to other providers intending other providers intending to providers intending to put intending to put into to put into service put into service or into service or place service or place such or place such systems place such systems on such systems on the systems on the union on the union market the union market as union market as high-risk market as high-risk ai as high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems or ai systems or as systems or as components or as components of as components of high-risk components of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems with ai systems with a systems with a view with a view to a view to enabling view to enabling the to enabling the latter enabling the latter to the latter to comply latter to comply with to comply with their comply with their obligations with their obligations under their obligations under this obligations under this regulation.
such cooperation cooperation between between providers providers shall shall preserve preserve as as appropriate appropriate intellectual intellectual property property rights rights and and confidential confidential business business information information or or trade trade secrets secrets in in accordance accordance with with article article .
such cooperation between cooperation between providers between providers shall providers shall preserve shall preserve as preserve as appropriate as appropriate intellectual appropriate intellectual property intellectual property rights property rights and rights and confidential and confidential business confidential business information business information or information or trade or trade secrets trade secrets in secrets in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article .
such cooperation between providers cooperation between providers shall between providers shall preserve providers shall preserve as shall preserve as appropriate preserve as appropriate intellectual as appropriate intellectual property appropriate intellectual property rights intellectual property rights and property rights and confidential rights and confidential business and confidential business information confidential business information or business information or trade information or trade secrets or trade secrets in trade secrets in accordance secrets in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article .
in order order to to ensure ensure uniform uniform conditions conditions for for the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation as as regards regards the the information information to to be be shared shared by by the the providers providers of of general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems the the commission commission may may adopt adopt implementing implementing acts acts in in accordance accordance with with the the examination examination procedure procedure referred referred to to in in article article .
in order to order to ensure to ensure uniform ensure uniform conditions uniform conditions for conditions for the for the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation as regulation as regards as regards the regards the information the information to information to be to be shared be shared by shared by the by the providers the providers of providers of general of general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems the systems the commission the commission may commission may adopt may adopt implementing adopt implementing acts implementing acts in acts in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the examination the examination procedure examination procedure referred procedure referred to referred to in to in article in article .
in order to ensure order to ensure uniform to ensure uniform conditions ensure uniform conditions for uniform conditions for the conditions for the implementation for the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation as this regulation as regards regulation as regards the as regards the information regards the information to the information to be information to be shared to be shared by be shared by the shared by the providers by the providers of the providers of general providers of general purpose of general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems the ai systems the commission systems the commission may the commission may adopt commission may adopt implementing may adopt implementing acts adopt implementing acts in implementing acts in accordance acts in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the examination with the examination procedure the examination procedure referred examination procedure referred to procedure referred to in referred to in article to in article .
in complying complying with with the the requirements requirements and and obligations obligations referred referred to to in in paragraphs paragraphs and and - - any any reference reference to to the the intended intended purpose purpose shall shall be be understood understood as as referring referring to to possible possible use use of of the the general general purpose purpose ai ai systems systems as as high high risk risk ai ai systems systems or or as as components components of of ai ai high high risk risk systems systems in in the the meaning meaning of of article article - - any any reference reference to to the the requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems in in chapter chapter ii ii title title iii iii shall shall be be understood understood as as referring referring only only to to the the requirements requirements set set out out in in the the present present article.
in complying with complying with the with the requirements the requirements and requirements and obligations and obligations referred obligations referred to referred to in to in paragraphs in paragraphs and paragraphs and - and - any - any reference any reference to reference to the to the intended the intended purpose intended purpose shall purpose shall be shall be understood be understood as understood as referring as referring to referring to possible to possible use possible use of use of the of the general the general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai systems ai systems as systems as high as high risk high risk ai risk ai systems ai systems or systems or as or as components as components of components of ai of ai high ai high risk high risk systems risk systems in systems in the in the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article - article - any - any reference any reference to reference to the to the requirements the requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems in systems in chapter in chapter ii chapter ii title ii title iii title iii shall iii shall be shall be understood be understood as understood as referring as referring only referring only to only to the to the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in the in the present the present article.
in complying with the complying with the requirements with the requirements and the requirements and obligations requirements and obligations referred and obligations referred to obligations referred to in referred to in paragraphs to in paragraphs and in paragraphs and - paragraphs and - any and - any reference - any reference to any reference to the reference to the intended to the intended purpose the intended purpose shall intended purpose shall be purpose shall be understood shall be understood as be understood as referring understood as referring to as referring to possible referring to possible use to possible use of possible use of the use of the general of the general purpose the general purpose ai general purpose ai systems purpose ai systems as ai systems as high systems as high risk as high risk ai high risk ai systems risk ai systems or ai systems or as systems or as components or as components of as components of ai components of ai high of ai high risk ai high risk systems high risk systems in risk systems in the systems in the meaning in the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article - of article - any article - any reference - any reference to any reference to the reference to the requirements to the requirements for the requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems in ai systems in chapter systems in chapter ii in chapter ii title chapter ii title iii ii title iii shall title iii shall be iii shall be understood shall be understood as be understood as referring understood as referring only as referring only to referring only to the only to the requirements to the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in the out in the present in the present article.
article c c exceptions exceptions to to article article b b .
article c exceptions c exceptions to exceptions to article to article b article b .
article c exceptions to c exceptions to article exceptions to article b to article b .
article b b shall shall not not apply apply when when the the provider provider has has explicitly explicitly excluded excluded all all high-risk high-risk uses uses in in the the instructions instructions of of use use or or information information accompanying accompanying the the general general purpose purpose ai ai system.
article b shall b shall not shall not apply not apply when apply when the when the provider the provider has provider has explicitly has explicitly excluded explicitly excluded all excluded all high-risk all high-risk uses high-risk uses in uses in the in the instructions the instructions of instructions of use of use or use or information or information accompanying information accompanying the accompanying the general the general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system.
article b shall not b shall not apply shall not apply when not apply when the apply when the provider when the provider has the provider has explicitly provider has explicitly excluded has explicitly excluded all explicitly excluded all high-risk excluded all high-risk uses all high-risk uses in high-risk uses in the uses in the instructions in the instructions of the instructions of use instructions of use or of use or information use or information accompanying or information accompanying the information accompanying the general accompanying the general purpose the general purpose ai general purpose ai system.
such exclusion exclusion shall shall be be made made in in good good faith faith and and shall shall not not be be deemed deemed justified justified if if the the provider provider has has sufficient sufficient reasons reasons to to consider consider that that the the system system may may be be misused.
such exclusion shall exclusion shall be shall be made be made in made in good in good faith good faith and faith and shall and shall not shall not be not be deemed be deemed justified deemed justified if justified if the if the provider the provider has provider has sufficient has sufficient reasons sufficient reasons to reasons to consider to consider that consider that the that the system the system may system may be may be misused.
such exclusion shall be exclusion shall be made shall be made in be made in good made in good faith in good faith and good faith and shall faith and shall not and shall not be shall not be deemed not be deemed justified be deemed justified if deemed justified if the justified if the provider if the provider has the provider has sufficient provider has sufficient reasons has sufficient reasons to sufficient reasons to consider reasons to consider that to consider that the consider that the system that the system may the system may be system may be misused.
when the the provider provider detects detects or or is is informed informed about about market market misuse misuse they they shall shall take take all all necessary necessary and and proportionate proportionate measures measures to to prevent prevent such such further further misuse misuse in in particular particular taking taking into into account account the the scale scale of of the the misuse misuse and and the the seriousness seriousness of of the the associated associated risks.
when the provider the provider detects provider detects or detects or is or is informed is informed about informed about market about market misuse market misuse they misuse they shall they shall take shall take all take all necessary all necessary and necessary and proportionate and proportionate measures proportionate measures to measures to prevent to prevent such prevent such further such further misuse further misuse in misuse in particular in particular taking particular taking into taking into account into account the account the scale the scale of scale of the of the misuse the misuse and misuse and the and the seriousness the seriousness of seriousness of the of the associated the associated risks.
when the provider detects the provider detects or provider detects or is detects or is informed or is informed about is informed about market informed about market misuse about market misuse they market misuse they shall misuse they shall take they shall take all shall take all necessary take all necessary and all necessary and proportionate necessary and proportionate measures and proportionate measures to proportionate measures to prevent measures to prevent such to prevent such further prevent such further misuse such further misuse in further misuse in particular misuse in particular taking in particular taking into particular taking into account taking into account the into account the scale account the scale of the scale of the scale of the misuse of the misuse and the misuse and the misuse and the seriousness and the seriousness of the seriousness of the seriousness of the associated of the associated risks.
tree..b rbek rbek en en title title ii ii prohibited prohibited artificial artificial intelligence intelligence practices practices .
tree..b rbek en rbek en title en title ii title ii prohibited ii prohibited artificial prohibited artificial intelligence artificial intelligence practices intelligence practices .
tree..b rbek en title rbek en title ii en title ii prohibited title ii prohibited artificial ii prohibited artificial intelligence prohibited artificial intelligence practices artificial intelligence practices .
the following following artificial artificial intelligence intelligence practices practices shall shall be be prohibited prohibited article article a a the the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service or or use use of of an an ai ai system system that that deploys deploys subliminal subliminal techniques techniques beyond beyond a a person’s person’s consciousness consciousness with with the the objective objective to to or or the the effect effect of of materially materially distorting distorting a a person’s person’s behaviour behaviour in in a a manner manner that that causes causes or or is is reasonably reasonably likely likely to to cause cause that that person person or or another another person person physical physical or or psychological psychological harm harm b b the the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service or or use use of of an an ai ai system system that that exploits exploits any any of of the the vulnerabilities vulnerabilities of of a a specific specific group group of of persons persons due due to to their their age age disability disability or or a a specific specific social social or or economic economic situation situation with with the the objective objective to to or or the the effect effect of of materially materially distorting distorting the the behaviour behaviour of of a a person person pertaining pertaining to to that that group group in in a a manner manner that that causes causes or or is is reasonably reasonably likely likely to to cause cause that that person person or or another another person person physical physical or or psychological psychological harm harm c c the the placing placing on on the the market market putting putting into into service service or or use use of of ai ai systems systems for for the the evaluation evaluation or or classification classification of of natural natural persons persons over over a a certain certain period period of of time time based based on on their their social social behaviour behaviour or or known known or or predicted predicted personal personal or or personality personality characteristics characteristics with with the the social social score score leading leading to to either either or or both both of of the the following following i i detrimental detrimental or or unfavourable unfavourable treatment treatment of of certain certain natural natural persons persons or or groups groups thereof thereof in in social social contexts contexts which which are are unrelated unrelated to to the the contexts contexts in in which which the the data data was was originally originally generated generated or or collected collected tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en ii ii detrimental detrimental or or unfavourable unfavourable treatment treatment of of certain certain natural natural persons persons or or groups groups thereof thereof that that is is unjustified unjustified or or disproportionate disproportionate to to their their social social behaviour behaviour or or its its gravity gravity d d the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces by by law law enforcement enforcement authorities authorities or or on on their their behalf behalf for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement unless unless and and in in as as far far as as such such use use is is strictly strictly necessary necessary for for one one of of the the following following objectives objectives i i the the targeted targeted search search for for specific specific potential potential victims victims of of crime crime ii ii the the prevention prevention of of a a specific specific and and substantial substantial threat threat to to the the critical critical infrastructure infrastructure life life health health or or physical physical safety safety of of natural natural persons persons or or the the prevention prevention of of terrorist terrorist attacks attacks iii iii the the localisation localisation or or identification identification of of a a natural natural person person for for the the purposes purposes of of conducting conducting a a criminal criminal investigation investigation prosecution prosecution or or executing executing a a criminal criminal penalty penalty for for offences offences referred referred to to in in article article of of council council framework framework decision decision jha jha and and punishable punishable in in the the member member state state concerned concerned by by a a custodial custodial sentence sentence or or a a detention detention order order for for a a maximum maximum period period of of at at least least three three years years or or other other specific specific offences offences punishable punishable in in the the member member state state concerned concerned by by a a custodial custodial sentence sentence or or a a detention detention order order for for a a maximum maximum period period of of at at least least five five years years as as determined determined by by the the law law of of that that member member state.
the following artificial following artificial intelligence artificial intelligence practices intelligence practices shall practices shall be shall be prohibited be prohibited article prohibited article a article a the a the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service or service or use or use of use of an of an ai an ai system ai system that system that deploys that deploys subliminal deploys subliminal techniques subliminal techniques beyond techniques beyond a beyond a person’s a person’s consciousness person’s consciousness with consciousness with the with the objective the objective to objective to or to or the or the effect the effect of effect of materially of materially distorting materially distorting a distorting a person’s a person’s behaviour person’s behaviour in behaviour in a in a manner a manner that manner that causes that causes or causes or is or is reasonably is reasonably likely reasonably likely to likely to cause to cause that cause that person that person or person or another or another person another person physical person physical or physical or psychological or psychological harm psychological harm b harm b the b the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service or service or use or use of use of an of an ai an ai system ai system that system that exploits that exploits any exploits any of any of the of the vulnerabilities the vulnerabilities of vulnerabilities of a of a specific a specific group specific group of group of persons of persons due persons due to due to their to their age their age disability age disability or disability or a or a specific a specific social specific social or social or economic or economic situation economic situation with situation with the with the objective the objective to objective to or to or the or the effect the effect of effect of materially of materially distorting materially distorting the distorting the behaviour the behaviour of behaviour of a of a person a person pertaining person pertaining to pertaining to that to that group that group in group in a in a manner a manner that manner that causes that causes or causes or is or is reasonably is reasonably likely reasonably likely to likely to cause to cause that cause that person that person or person or another or another person another person physical person physical or physical or psychological or psychological harm psychological harm c harm c the c the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market putting market putting into putting into service into service or service or use or use of use of ai of ai systems ai systems for systems for the for the evaluation the evaluation or evaluation or classification or classification of classification of natural of natural persons natural persons over persons over a over a certain a certain period certain period of period of time of time based time based on based on their on their social their social behaviour social behaviour or behaviour or known or known or known or predicted or predicted personal predicted personal or personal or personality or personality characteristics personality characteristics with characteristics with the with the social the social score social score leading score leading to leading to either to either or either or both or both of both of the of the following the following i following i detrimental i detrimental or detrimental or unfavourable or unfavourable treatment unfavourable treatment of treatment of certain of certain natural certain natural persons natural persons or persons or groups or groups thereof groups thereof in thereof in social in social contexts social contexts which contexts which are which are unrelated are unrelated to unrelated to the to the contexts the contexts in contexts in which in which the which the data the data was data was originally was originally generated originally generated or generated or collected or collected tree..b collected tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en ii en ii detrimental ii detrimental or detrimental or unfavourable or unfavourable treatment unfavourable treatment of treatment of certain of certain natural certain natural persons natural persons or persons or groups or groups thereof groups thereof that thereof that is that is unjustified is unjustified or unjustified or disproportionate or disproportionate to disproportionate to their to their social their social behaviour social behaviour or behaviour or its or its gravity its gravity d gravity d the d the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces by spaces by law by law enforcement law enforcement authorities enforcement authorities or authorities or on or on their on their behalf their behalf for behalf for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement unless enforcement unless and unless and in and in as in as far as far as far as such as such use such use is use is strictly is strictly necessary strictly necessary for necessary for one for one of one of the of the following the following objectives following objectives i objectives i the i the targeted the targeted search targeted search for search for specific for specific potential specific potential victims potential victims of victims of crime of crime ii crime ii the ii the prevention the prevention of prevention of a of a specific a specific and specific and substantial and substantial threat substantial threat to threat to the to the critical the critical infrastructure critical infrastructure life infrastructure life health life health or health or physical or physical safety physical safety of safety of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or the or the prevention the prevention of prevention of terrorist of terrorist attacks terrorist attacks iii attacks iii the iii the localisation the localisation or localisation or identification or identification of identification of a of a natural a natural person natural person for person for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of conducting of conducting a conducting a criminal a criminal investigation criminal investigation prosecution investigation prosecution or prosecution or executing or executing a executing a criminal a criminal penalty criminal penalty for penalty for offences for offences referred offences referred to referred to in to in article in article of article of council of council framework council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha and jha and punishable and punishable in punishable in the in the member the member state member state concerned state concerned by concerned by a by a custodial a custodial sentence custodial sentence or sentence or a or a detention a detention order detention order for order for a for a maximum a maximum period maximum period of period of at of at least at least three least three years three years or years or other or other specific other specific offences specific offences punishable offences punishable in punishable in the in the member the member state member state concerned state concerned by concerned by a by a custodial a custodial sentence custodial sentence or sentence or a or a detention a detention order detention order for order for a for a maximum a maximum period maximum period of period of at of at least at least five least five years five years as years as determined as determined by determined by the by the law the law of law of that of that member that member state.
the following artificial intelligence following artificial intelligence practices artificial intelligence practices shall intelligence practices shall be practices shall be prohibited shall be prohibited article be prohibited article a prohibited article a the article a the placing a the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service or into service or use service or use of or use of an use of an ai of an ai system an ai system that ai system that deploys system that deploys subliminal that deploys subliminal techniques deploys subliminal techniques beyond subliminal techniques beyond a techniques beyond a person’s beyond a person’s consciousness a person’s consciousness with person’s consciousness with the consciousness with the objective with the objective to the objective to or objective to or the to or the effect or the effect of the effect of materially effect of materially distorting of materially distorting a materially distorting a person’s distorting a person’s behaviour a person’s behaviour in person’s behaviour in a behaviour in a manner in a manner that a manner that causes manner that causes or that causes or is causes or is reasonably or is reasonably likely is reasonably likely to reasonably likely to cause likely to cause that to cause that person cause that person or that person or another person or another person or another person physical another person physical or person physical or psychological physical or psychological harm or psychological harm b psychological harm b the harm b the placing b the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service or into service or use service or use of or use of an use of an ai of an ai system an ai system that ai system that exploits system that exploits any that exploits any of exploits any of the any of the vulnerabilities of the vulnerabilities of the vulnerabilities of a vulnerabilities of a specific of a specific group a specific group of specific group of persons group of persons due of persons due to persons due to their due to their age to their age disability their age disability or age disability or a disability or a specific or a specific social a specific social or specific social or economic social or economic situation or economic situation with economic situation with the situation with the objective with the objective to the objective to or objective to or the to or the effect or the effect of the effect of materially effect of materially distorting of materially distorting the materially distorting the behaviour distorting the behaviour of the behaviour of a behaviour of a person of a person pertaining a person pertaining to person pertaining to that pertaining to that group to that group in that group in a group in a manner in a manner that a manner that causes manner that causes or that causes or is causes or is reasonably or is reasonably likely is reasonably likely to reasonably likely to cause likely to cause that to cause that person cause that person or that person or another person or another person or another person physical another person physical or person physical or psychological physical or psychological harm or psychological harm c psychological harm c the harm c the placing c the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market putting the market putting into market putting into service putting into service or into service or use service or use of or use of ai use of ai systems of ai systems for ai systems for the systems for the evaluation for the evaluation or the evaluation or classification evaluation or classification of or classification of natural classification of natural persons of natural persons over natural persons over a persons over a certain over a certain period a certain period of certain period of time period of time based of time based on time based on their based on their social on their social behaviour their social behaviour or social behaviour or known behaviour or known or or known or predicted known or predicted personal or predicted personal or predicted personal or personality personal or personality characteristics or personality characteristics with personality characteristics with the characteristics with the social with the social score the social score leading social score leading to score leading to either leading to either or to either or both either or both of or both of the both of the following of the following i the following i detrimental following i detrimental or i detrimental or unfavourable detrimental or unfavourable treatment or unfavourable treatment of unfavourable treatment of certain treatment of certain natural of certain natural persons certain natural persons or natural persons or groups persons or groups thereof or groups thereof in groups thereof in social thereof in social contexts in social contexts which social contexts which are contexts which are unrelated which are unrelated to are unrelated to the unrelated to the contexts to the contexts in the contexts in which contexts in which the in which the data which the data was the data was originally data was originally generated was originally generated or originally generated or collected generated or collected tree..b or collected tree..b rbek collected tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en ii rbek en ii detrimental en ii detrimental or ii detrimental or unfavourable detrimental or unfavourable treatment or unfavourable treatment of unfavourable treatment of certain treatment of certain natural of certain natural persons certain natural persons or natural persons or groups persons or groups thereof or groups thereof that groups thereof that is thereof that is unjustified that is unjustified or is unjustified or disproportionate unjustified or disproportionate to or disproportionate to their disproportionate to their social to their social behaviour their social behaviour or social behaviour or its behaviour or its gravity or its gravity d its gravity d the gravity d the use d the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces by accessible spaces by law spaces by law enforcement by law enforcement authorities law enforcement authorities or enforcement authorities or on authorities or on their or on their behalf on their behalf for their behalf for the behalf for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement unless law enforcement unless and enforcement unless and in unless and in as and in as far in as far as as far as such far as such use as such use is such use is strictly use is strictly necessary is strictly necessary for strictly necessary for one necessary for one of for one of the one of the following of the following objectives the following objectives i following objectives i the objectives i the targeted i the targeted search the targeted search for targeted search for specific search for specific potential for specific potential victims specific potential victims of potential victims of crime victims of crime ii of crime ii the crime ii the prevention ii the prevention of the prevention of a prevention of a specific of a specific and a specific and substantial specific and substantial threat and substantial threat to substantial threat to the threat to the critical to the critical infrastructure the critical infrastructure life critical infrastructure life health infrastructure life health or life health or physical health or physical safety or physical safety of physical safety of natural safety of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or the persons or the prevention or the prevention of the prevention of terrorist prevention of terrorist attacks of terrorist attacks iii terrorist attacks iii the attacks iii the localisation iii the localisation or the localisation or identification localisation or identification of or identification of a identification of a natural of a natural person a natural person for natural person for the person for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of conducting purposes of conducting a of conducting a criminal conducting a criminal investigation a criminal investigation prosecution criminal investigation prosecution or investigation prosecution or executing prosecution or executing a or executing a criminal executing a criminal penalty a criminal penalty for criminal penalty for offences penalty for offences referred for offences referred to offences referred to in referred to in article to in article of in article of council article of council framework of council framework decision council framework decision jha framework decision jha and decision jha and punishable jha and punishable in and punishable in the punishable in the member in the member state the member state concerned member state concerned by state concerned by a concerned by a custodial by a custodial sentence a custodial sentence or custodial sentence or a sentence or a detention or a detention order a detention order for detention order for a order for a maximum for a maximum period a maximum period of maximum period of at period of at least of at least three at least three years least three years or three years or other years or other specific or other specific offences other specific offences punishable specific offences punishable in offences punishable in the punishable in the member in the member state the member state concerned member state concerned by state concerned by a concerned by a custodial by a custodial sentence a custodial sentence or custodial sentence or a sentence or a detention or a detention order a detention order for detention order for a order for a maximum for a maximum period a maximum period of maximum period of at period of at least of at least five at least five years least five years as five years as determined years as determined by as determined by the determined by the law by the law of the law of that law of that member of that member state.
the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement for for any any of of the the objectives objectives referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point d d shall shall take take into into account account the the following following elements elements a a the the nature nature of of the the situation situation giving giving rise rise to to the the possible possible use use in in particular particular the the seriousness seriousness probability probability and and scale scale of of the the harm harm caused caused in in the the absence absence of of the the use use of of the the system system council council framework framework decision decision jha jha of of june june on on the the european european arrest arrest warrant warrant and and the the surrender surrender procedures procedures between between member member states states oj oj l l .. .. p. p. .
the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement for enforcement for any for any of any of the of the objectives the objectives referred objectives referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d shall d shall take shall take into take into account into account the account the following the following elements following elements a elements a the a the nature the nature of nature of the of the situation the situation giving situation giving rise giving rise to rise to the to the possible the possible use possible use in use in particular in particular the particular the seriousness the seriousness probability seriousness probability and probability and scale and scale of scale of the of the harm the harm caused harm caused in caused in the in the absence the absence of absence of the of the use the use of use of the of the system the system council system council framework council framework decision framework decision jha decision jha of jha of june of june on june on the on the european the european arrest european arrest warrant arrest warrant and warrant and the and the surrender the surrender procedures surrender procedures between procedures between member between member states member states oj states oj l oj l .. l .. p. .. p. .
the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement for law enforcement for any enforcement for any of for any of the any of the objectives of the objectives referred the objectives referred to objectives referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d shall point d shall take d shall take into shall take into account take into account the into account the following account the following elements the following elements a following elements a the elements a the nature a the nature of the nature of the nature of the situation of the situation giving the situation giving rise situation giving rise to giving rise to the rise to the possible to the possible use the possible use in possible use in particular use in particular the in particular the seriousness particular the seriousness probability the seriousness probability and seriousness probability and scale probability and scale of and scale of the scale of the harm of the harm caused the harm caused in harm caused in the caused in the absence in the absence of the absence of the absence of the use of the use of the use of the use of the system of the system council the system council framework system council framework decision council framework decision jha framework decision jha of decision jha of june jha of june on of june on the june on the european on the european arrest the european arrest warrant european arrest warrant and arrest warrant and the warrant and the surrender and the surrender procedures the surrender procedures between surrender procedures between member procedures between member states between member states oj member states oj l states oj l .. oj l .. p. l .. p. .
tree..b rbek rbek en en b b the the consequences consequences of of the the use use of of the the system system for for the the rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of all all persons persons concerned concerned in in particular particular the the seriousness seriousness probability probability and and scale scale of of those those consequences.
tree..b rbek en rbek en b en b the b the consequences the consequences of consequences of the of the use the use of use of the of the system the system for system for the for the rights the rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of all of all persons all persons concerned persons concerned in concerned in particular in particular the particular the seriousness the seriousness probability seriousness probability and probability and scale and scale of scale of those of those consequences.
tree..b rbek en b rbek en b the en b the consequences b the consequences of the consequences of the consequences of the use of the use of the use of the use of the system of the system for the system for the system for the rights for the rights and the rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of all freedoms of all persons of all persons concerned all persons concerned in persons concerned in particular concerned in particular the in particular the seriousness particular the seriousness probability the seriousness probability and seriousness probability and scale probability and scale of and scale of those scale of those consequences.
in addition addition the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement for for any any of of the the objectives objectives referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point d d shall shall comply comply with with necessary necessary and and proportionate proportionate safeguards safeguards and and conditions conditions in in relation relation to to the the use use in in particular particular as as regards regards the the temporal temporal geographic geographic and and personal personal limitations.
in addition the addition the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement for enforcement for any for any of any of the of the objectives the objectives referred objectives referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d shall d shall comply shall comply with comply with necessary with necessary and necessary and proportionate and proportionate safeguards proportionate safeguards and safeguards and conditions and conditions in conditions in relation in relation to relation to the to the use the use in use in particular in particular as particular as regards as regards the regards the temporal the temporal geographic temporal geographic and geographic and personal and personal limitations.
in addition the use addition the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement for law enforcement for any enforcement for any of for any of the any of the objectives of the objectives referred the objectives referred to objectives referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d shall point d shall comply d shall comply with shall comply with necessary comply with necessary and with necessary and proportionate necessary and proportionate safeguards and proportionate safeguards and proportionate safeguards and conditions safeguards and conditions in and conditions in relation conditions in relation to in relation to the relation to the use to the use in the use in particular use in particular as in particular as regards particular as regards the as regards the temporal regards the temporal geographic the temporal geographic and temporal geographic and personal geographic and personal limitations.
as regards regards paragraphs paragraphs point point d d and and each each use use for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement of of a a ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system system in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces shall shall be be subject subject to to a a prior prior authorisation authorisation granted granted by by a a judicial judicial authority authority or or by by an an independent independent administrative administrative authority authority of of the the member member state state in in which which the the use use is is to to take take place place issued issued upon upon a a reasoned reasoned request request and and in in accordance accordance with with the the detailed detailed rules rules of of national national law law referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph .
as regards paragraphs regards paragraphs point paragraphs point d point d and d and each and each use each use for use for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement of enforcement of a of a ‘real-time’ a ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system identification system in system in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces shall spaces shall be shall be subject be subject to subject to a to a prior a prior authorisation prior authorisation granted authorisation granted by granted by a by a judicial a judicial authority judicial authority or authority or by or by an by an independent an independent administrative independent administrative authority administrative authority of authority of the of the member the member state member state in state in which in which the which the use the use is use is to is to take to take place take place issued place issued upon issued upon a upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request and request and in and in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the detailed the detailed rules detailed rules of rules of national of national law national law referred law referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph .
as regards paragraphs point regards paragraphs point d paragraphs point d and point d and each d and each use and each use for each use for the use for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement of law enforcement of a enforcement of a ‘real-time’ of a ‘real-time’ remote a ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system biometric identification system in identification system in publicly system in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces shall accessible spaces shall be spaces shall be subject shall be subject to be subject to a subject to a prior to a prior authorisation a prior authorisation granted prior authorisation granted by authorisation granted by a granted by a judicial by a judicial authority a judicial authority or judicial authority or by authority or by an or by an independent by an independent administrative an independent administrative authority independent administrative authority of administrative authority of the authority of the member of the member state the member state in member state in which state in which the in which the use which the use is the use is to use is to take is to take place to take place issued take place issued upon place issued upon a issued upon a reasoned upon a reasoned request a reasoned request and reasoned request and in request and in accordance and in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the detailed with the detailed rules the detailed rules of detailed rules of national rules of national law of national law referred national law referred to law referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph .
however in in a a duly duly justified justified situation situation of of urgency urgency the the use use of of the the system system may may be be commenced commenced without without an an authorisation authorisation provided provided that that such such authorisation authorisation shall shall be be requested requested without without undue undue delay delay during during use use of of the the ai ai system system and and if if such such authorisation authorisation is is rejected rejected its its use use shall shall be be stopped stopped with with immediate immediate effect.
however in a in a duly a duly justified duly justified situation justified situation of situation of urgency of urgency the urgency the use the use of use of the of the system the system may system may be may be commenced be commenced without commenced without an without an authorisation an authorisation provided authorisation provided that provided that such that such authorisation such authorisation shall authorisation shall be shall be requested be requested without requested without undue without undue delay undue delay during delay during use during use of use of the of the ai the ai system ai system and system and if and if such if such authorisation such authorisation is authorisation is rejected is rejected its rejected its use its use shall use shall be shall be stopped be stopped with stopped with immediate with immediate effect.
however in a duly in a duly justified a duly justified situation duly justified situation of justified situation of urgency situation of urgency the of urgency the use urgency the use of the use of the use of the system of the system may the system may be system may be commenced may be commenced without be commenced without an commenced without an authorisation without an authorisation provided an authorisation provided that authorisation provided that such provided that such authorisation that such authorisation shall such authorisation shall be authorisation shall be requested shall be requested without be requested without undue requested without undue delay without undue delay during undue delay during use delay during use of during use of the use of the ai of the ai system the ai system and ai system and if system and if such and if such authorisation if such authorisation is such authorisation is rejected authorisation is rejected its is rejected its use rejected its use shall its use shall be use shall be stopped shall be stopped with be stopped with immediate stopped with immediate effect.
the competent competent judicial judicial or or administrative administrative authority authority shall shall only only grant grant the the authorisation authorisation where where it it is is satisfied satisfied based based on on objective objective evidence evidence or or clear clear indications indications presented presented to to it it that that the the use use of of the the ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification system system at at issue issue is is necessary necessary for for and and proportionate proportionate to to achieving achieving one one of of the the objectives objectives specified specified in in paragraph paragraph point point d d as as identified identified in in the the request.
the competent judicial competent judicial or judicial or administrative or administrative authority administrative authority shall authority shall only shall only grant only grant the grant the authorisation the authorisation where authorisation where it where it is it is satisfied is satisfied based satisfied based on based on objective on objective evidence objective evidence or evidence or clear or clear indications clear indications presented indications presented to presented to it to it that it that the that the use the use of use of the of the ‘real-time’ the ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification system identification system at system at issue at issue is issue is necessary is necessary for necessary for and for and proportionate and proportionate to proportionate to achieving to achieving one achieving one of one of the of the objectives the objectives specified objectives specified in specified in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d as d as identified as identified in identified in the in the request.
the competent judicial or competent judicial or administrative judicial or administrative authority or administrative authority shall administrative authority shall only authority shall only grant shall only grant the only grant the authorisation grant the authorisation where the authorisation where it authorisation where it is where it is satisfied it is satisfied based is satisfied based on satisfied based on objective based on objective evidence on objective evidence or objective evidence or clear evidence or clear indications or clear indications presented clear indications presented to indications presented to it presented to it that to it that the it that the use that the use of the use of the use of the ‘real-time’ of the ‘real-time’ remote the ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification system biometric identification system at identification system at issue system at issue is at issue is necessary issue is necessary for is necessary for and necessary for and proportionate for and proportionate to and proportionate to achieving proportionate to achieving one to achieving one of achieving one of the one of the objectives of the objectives specified the objectives specified in objectives specified in paragraph specified in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d as point d as identified d as identified in as identified in the identified in the request.
in deciding deciding on on the the request request the the competent competent judicial judicial or or administrative administrative authority authority shall shall take take into into account account the the elements elements referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph .
in deciding on deciding on the on the request the request the request the competent the competent judicial competent judicial or judicial or administrative or administrative authority administrative authority shall authority shall take shall take into take into account into account the account the elements the elements referred elements referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph .
in deciding on the deciding on the request on the request the the request the competent request the competent judicial the competent judicial or competent judicial or administrative judicial or administrative authority or administrative authority shall administrative authority shall take authority shall take into shall take into account take into account the into account the elements account the elements referred the elements referred to elements referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph .
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
a member member state state may may decide decide to to provide provide for for the the possibility possibility to to fully fully or or partially partially authorise authorise the the use use of of ‘real-time’ ‘real-time’ remote remote biometric biometric identification identification systems systems in in publicly publicly accessible accessible spaces spaces for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement within within the the limits limits and and under under the the conditions conditions listed listed in in paragraphs paragraphs point point d d and and .
a member state member state may state may decide may decide to decide to provide to provide for provide for the for the possibility the possibility to possibility to fully to fully or fully or partially or partially authorise partially authorise the authorise the use the use of use of ‘real-time’ of ‘real-time’ remote ‘real-time’ remote biometric remote biometric identification biometric identification systems identification systems in systems in publicly in publicly accessible publicly accessible spaces accessible spaces for spaces for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement within enforcement within the within the limits the limits and limits and under and under the under the conditions the conditions listed conditions listed in listed in paragraphs in paragraphs point paragraphs point d point d and d and .
a member state may member state may decide state may decide to may decide to provide decide to provide for to provide for the provide for the possibility for the possibility to the possibility to fully possibility to fully or to fully or partially fully or partially authorise or partially authorise the partially authorise the use authorise the use of the use of ‘real-time’ use of ‘real-time’ remote of ‘real-time’ remote biometric ‘real-time’ remote biometric identification remote biometric identification systems biometric identification systems in identification systems in publicly systems in publicly accessible in publicly accessible spaces publicly accessible spaces for accessible spaces for the spaces for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement within law enforcement within the enforcement within the limits within the limits and the limits and under limits and under the and under the conditions under the conditions listed the conditions listed in conditions listed in paragraphs listed in paragraphs point in paragraphs point d paragraphs point d and point d and .
that member member state state shall shall lay lay down down in in its its national national law law the the necessary necessary detailed detailed rules rules for for the the request request issuance issuance and and exercise exercise of of as as well well as as supervision supervision and and reporting reporting relating relating to to the the authorisations authorisations referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph .
that member state member state shall state shall lay shall lay down lay down in down in its in its national its national law national law the law the necessary the necessary detailed necessary detailed rules detailed rules for rules for the for the request the request issuance request issuance and issuance and exercise and exercise of exercise of as of as well as well as well as supervision as supervision and supervision and reporting and reporting relating reporting relating to relating to the to the authorisations the authorisations referred authorisations referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph .
that member state shall member state shall lay state shall lay down shall lay down in lay down in its down in its national in its national law its national law the national law the necessary law the necessary detailed the necessary detailed rules necessary detailed rules for detailed rules for the rules for the request for the request issuance the request issuance and request issuance and exercise issuance and exercise of and exercise of as exercise of as well of as well as as well as supervision well as supervision and as supervision and reporting supervision and reporting relating and reporting relating to reporting relating to the relating to the authorisations to the authorisations referred the authorisations referred to authorisations referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph .
those rules rules shall shall also also specify specify in in respect respect of of which which of of the the objectives objectives listed listed in in paragraph paragraph point point d d including including which which of of the the criminal criminal offences offences referred referred to to in in point point iii iii thereof thereof the the competent competent authorities authorities may may be be authorised authorised to to use use those those systems systems for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement.
those rules shall rules shall also shall also specify also specify in specify in respect in respect of respect of which of which of which of the of the objectives the objectives listed objectives listed in listed in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d including d including which including which of which of the of the criminal the criminal offences criminal offences referred offences referred to referred to in to in point in point iii point iii thereof iii thereof the thereof the competent the competent authorities competent authorities may authorities may be may be authorised be authorised to authorised to use to use those use those systems those systems for systems for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement.
those rules shall also rules shall also specify shall also specify in also specify in respect specify in respect of in respect of which respect of which of of which of the which of the objectives of the objectives listed the objectives listed in objectives listed in paragraph listed in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d including point d including which d including which of including which of the which of the criminal of the criminal offences the criminal offences referred criminal offences referred to offences referred to in referred to in point to in point iii in point iii thereof point iii thereof the iii thereof the competent thereof the competent authorities the competent authorities may competent authorities may be authorities may be authorised may be authorised to be authorised to use authorised to use those to use those systems use those systems for those systems for the systems for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement.
title iii iii high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems chapter chapter classification classification of of ai ai systems systems as as high-risk high-risk article article classification classification rules rules for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems .
title iii high-risk iii high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems chapter systems chapter classification chapter classification of classification of ai of ai systems ai systems as systems as high-risk as high-risk article high-risk article classification article classification rules classification rules for rules for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems .
title iii high-risk ai iii high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems chapter ai systems chapter classification systems chapter classification of chapter classification of ai classification of ai systems of ai systems as ai systems as high-risk systems as high-risk article as high-risk article classification high-risk article classification rules article classification rules for classification rules for high-risk rules for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems .
an ai ai system system that that is is itself itself a a product product covered covered by by the the union union harmonisation harmonisation legislation legislation listed listed in in annex annex ii ii shall shall be be considered considered as as high high risk risk if if it it is is required required to to undergo undergo a a third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment with with a a view view to to the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of that that product product pursuant pursuant to to the the above above mentioned mentioned legislation.
an ai system ai system that system that is that is itself is itself a itself a product a product covered product covered by covered by the by the union the union harmonisation union harmonisation legislation harmonisation legislation listed legislation listed in listed in annex in annex ii annex ii shall ii shall be shall be considered be considered as considered as high as high risk high risk if risk if it if it is it is required is required to required to undergo to undergo a undergo a third-party a third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment with assessment with a with a view a view to view to the to the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of that of that product that product pursuant product pursuant to pursuant to the to the above the above mentioned above mentioned legislation.
an ai system that ai system that is system that is itself that is itself a is itself a product itself a product covered a product covered by product covered by the covered by the union by the union harmonisation the union harmonisation legislation union harmonisation legislation listed harmonisation legislation listed in legislation listed in annex listed in annex ii in annex ii shall annex ii shall be ii shall be considered shall be considered as be considered as high considered as high risk as high risk if high risk if it risk if it is if it is required it is required to is required to undergo required to undergo a to undergo a third-party undergo a third-party conformity a third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment with conformity assessment with a assessment with a view with a view to a view to the view to the placing to the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of that service of that product of that product pursuant that product pursuant to product pursuant to the pursuant to the above to the above mentioned the above mentioned legislation.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
an ai ai system system intended intended to to be be used used as as a a safety safety component component of of a a product product covered covered by by the the legislation legislation referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall be be considered considered as as high high risk risk if if it it is is required required to to undergo undergo a a third-party third-party conformity conformity assessment assessment with with a a view view to to the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of that that product product pursuant pursuant to to above above mentioned mentioned legislation.
an ai system ai system intended system intended to intended to be to be used be used as used as a as a safety a safety component safety component of component of a of a product a product covered product covered by covered by the by the legislation the legislation referred legislation referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall be shall be considered be considered as considered as high as high risk high risk if risk if it if it is it is required is required to required to undergo to undergo a undergo a third-party a third-party conformity third-party conformity assessment conformity assessment with assessment with a with a view a view to view to the to the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of that of that product that product pursuant product pursuant to pursuant to above to above mentioned above mentioned legislation.
an ai system intended ai system intended to system intended to be intended to be used to be used as be used as a used as a safety as a safety component a safety component of safety component of a component of a product of a product covered a product covered by product covered by the covered by the legislation by the legislation referred the legislation referred to legislation referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall be paragraph shall be considered shall be considered as be considered as high considered as high risk as high risk if high risk if it risk if it is if it is required it is required to is required to undergo required to undergo a to undergo a third-party undergo a third-party conformity a third-party conformity assessment third-party conformity assessment with conformity assessment with a assessment with a view with a view to a view to the view to the placing to the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of that service of that product of that product pursuant that product pursuant to product pursuant to above pursuant to above mentioned to above mentioned legislation.
this provision provision shall shall apply apply irrespective irrespective of of whether whether the the ai ai system system is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service independently independently from from the the product.
this provision shall provision shall apply shall apply irrespective apply irrespective of irrespective of whether of whether the whether the ai the ai system ai system is system is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service independently service independently from independently from the from the product.
this provision shall apply provision shall apply irrespective shall apply irrespective of apply irrespective of whether irrespective of whether the of whether the ai whether the ai system the ai system is ai system is placed system is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service independently into service independently from service independently from the independently from the product.
ai systems systems referred referred to to in in annex annex iii iii shall shall be be considered considered high-risk high-risk unless unless the the output output of of the the system system is is purely purely accessory accessory in in respect respect of of the the relevant relevant action action or or decision decision to to be be taken taken and and is is not not therefore therefore likely likely to to lead lead to to a a significant significant risk risk to to the the health health safety safety or or fundamental fundamental rights.
ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii annex iii shall iii shall be shall be considered be considered high-risk considered high-risk unless high-risk unless the unless the output the output of output of the of the system the system is system is purely is purely accessory purely accessory in accessory in respect in respect of respect of the of the relevant the relevant action relevant action or action or decision or decision to decision to be to be taken be taken and taken and is and is not is not therefore not therefore likely therefore likely to likely to lead to lead to lead to a to a significant a significant risk significant risk to risk to the to the health the health safety health safety or safety or fundamental or fundamental rights.
ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii in annex iii shall annex iii shall be iii shall be considered shall be considered high-risk be considered high-risk unless considered high-risk unless the high-risk unless the output unless the output of the output of the output of the system of the system is the system is purely system is purely accessory is purely accessory in purely accessory in respect accessory in respect of in respect of the respect of the relevant of the relevant action the relevant action or relevant action or decision action or decision to or decision to be decision to be taken to be taken and be taken and is taken and is not and is not therefore is not therefore likely not therefore likely to therefore likely to lead likely to lead to to lead to a lead to a significant to a significant risk a significant risk to significant risk to the risk to the health to the health safety the health safety or health safety or fundamental safety or fundamental rights.
in order order to to ensure ensure uniform uniform conditions conditions for for the the implementation implementation of of this this regulation regulation the the commission commission shall shall no no later later than than one one year year after after the the entry entry into into force force of of this this regulation regulation adopt adopt implementing implementing acts acts to to specify specify the the circumstances circumstances where where the the output output of of ai ai systems systems referred referred to to in in annex annex iii iii would would be be purely purely accessory accessory in in respect respect of of the the relevant relevant action action or or decision decision to to be be taken.
in order to order to ensure to ensure uniform ensure uniform conditions uniform conditions for conditions for the for the implementation the implementation of implementation of this of this regulation this regulation the regulation the commission the commission shall commission shall no shall no later no later than later than one than one year one year after year after the after the entry the entry into entry into force into force of force of this of this regulation this regulation adopt regulation adopt implementing adopt implementing acts implementing acts to acts to specify to specify the specify the circumstances the circumstances where circumstances where the where the output the output of output of ai of ai systems ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii annex iii would iii would be would be purely be purely accessory purely accessory in accessory in respect in respect of respect of the of the relevant the relevant action relevant action or action or decision or decision to decision to be to be taken.
in order to ensure order to ensure uniform to ensure uniform conditions ensure uniform conditions for uniform conditions for the conditions for the implementation for the implementation of the implementation of this implementation of this regulation of this regulation the this regulation the commission regulation the commission shall the commission shall no commission shall no later shall no later than no later than one later than one year than one year after one year after the year after the entry after the entry into the entry into force entry into force of into force of this force of this regulation of this regulation adopt this regulation adopt implementing regulation adopt implementing acts adopt implementing acts to implementing acts to specify acts to specify the to specify the circumstances specify the circumstances where the circumstances where the circumstances where the output where the output of the output of ai output of ai systems of ai systems referred ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii in annex iii would annex iii would be iii would be purely would be purely accessory be purely accessory in purely accessory in respect accessory in respect of in respect of the respect of the relevant of the relevant action the relevant action or relevant action or decision action or decision to or decision to be decision to be taken.
those implementing implementing acts acts shall shall be be adopted adopted in in accordance accordance with with the the examination examination procedure procedure referred referred to to in in article article paragraph paragraph .
those implementing acts implementing acts shall acts shall be shall be adopted be adopted in adopted in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the examination the examination procedure examination procedure referred procedure referred to referred to in to in article in article paragraph article paragraph .
those implementing acts shall implementing acts shall be acts shall be adopted shall be adopted in be adopted in accordance adopted in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the examination with the examination procedure the examination procedure referred examination procedure referred to procedure referred to in referred to in article to in article paragraph in article paragraph .
article amendments amendments to to annex annex iii iii .
article amendments to amendments to annex to annex iii annex iii .
article amendments to annex amendments to annex iii to annex iii .
the commission commission is is empowered empowered to to adopt adopt delegated delegated acts acts in in accordance accordance with with article article to to amend amend the the list list in in annex annex iii iii by by adding adding high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems where where both both of of the the following following conditions conditions are are fulfilled fulfilled a a the the ai ai systems systems are are intended intended to to be be used used in in any any of of the the areas areas listed listed in in points points to to of of annex annex iii iii b b the the ai ai systems systems pose pose a a risk risk of of harm harm to to the the health health and and safety safety or or a a risk risk of of adverse adverse impact impact on on fundamental fundamental rights rights that that is is in in respect respect of of its its severity severity and and probability probability of of occurrence occurrence equivalent equivalent to to or or greater greater than than the the risk risk of of harm harm or or of of adverse adverse impact impact posed posed by by the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems already already referred referred to to in in annex annex iii.
the commission is commission is empowered is empowered to empowered to adopt to adopt delegated adopt delegated acts delegated acts in acts in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article to article to amend to amend the amend the list the list in list in annex in annex iii annex iii by iii by adding by adding high-risk adding high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems where systems where both where both of both of the of the following the following conditions following conditions are conditions are fulfilled are fulfilled a fulfilled a the a the ai the ai systems ai systems are systems are intended are intended to intended to be to be used be used in used in any in any of any of the of the areas the areas listed areas listed in listed in points in points to points to of to of annex of annex iii annex iii b iii b the b the ai the ai systems ai systems pose systems pose a pose a risk a risk of risk of harm of harm to harm to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety or safety or a or a risk a risk of risk of adverse of adverse impact adverse impact on impact on fundamental on fundamental rights fundamental rights that rights that is that is in is in respect in respect of respect of its of its severity its severity and severity and probability and probability of probability of occurrence of occurrence equivalent occurrence equivalent to equivalent to or to or greater or greater than greater than the than the risk the risk of risk of harm of harm or harm or of or of adverse of adverse impact adverse impact posed impact posed by posed by the by the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems already systems already referred already referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii.
the commission is empowered commission is empowered to is empowered to adopt empowered to adopt delegated to adopt delegated acts adopt delegated acts in delegated acts in accordance acts in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article to with article to amend article to amend the to amend the list amend the list in the list in annex list in annex iii in annex iii by annex iii by adding iii by adding high-risk by adding high-risk ai adding high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems where ai systems where both systems where both of where both of the both of the following of the following conditions the following conditions are following conditions are fulfilled conditions are fulfilled a are fulfilled a the fulfilled a the ai a the ai systems the ai systems are ai systems are intended systems are intended to are intended to be intended to be used to be used in be used in any used in any of in any of the any of the areas of the areas listed the areas listed in areas listed in points listed in points to in points to of points to of annex to of annex iii of annex iii b annex iii b the iii b the ai b the ai systems the ai systems pose ai systems pose a systems pose a risk pose a risk of a risk of harm risk of harm to of harm to the harm to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety or and safety or a safety or a risk or a risk of a risk of adverse risk of adverse impact of adverse impact on adverse impact on fundamental impact on fundamental rights on fundamental rights that fundamental rights that is rights that is in that is in respect is in respect of in respect of its respect of its severity of its severity and its severity and probability severity and probability of and probability of occurrence probability of occurrence equivalent of occurrence equivalent to occurrence equivalent to or equivalent to or greater to or greater than or greater than the greater than the risk than the risk of the risk of harm risk of harm or of harm or of harm or of adverse or of adverse impact of adverse impact posed adverse impact posed by impact posed by the posed by the high-risk by the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems already ai systems already referred systems already referred to already referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
when assessing assessing for for the the purposes purposes of of paragraph paragraph whether whether an an ai ai system system poses poses a a risk risk of of harm harm to to the the health health and and safety safety or or a a risk risk of of adverse adverse impact impact on on fundamental fundamental rights rights that that is is equivalent equivalent to to or or greater greater than than the the risk risk of of harm harm posed posed by by the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems already already referred referred to to in in annex annex iii iii the the commission commission shall shall take take into into account account the the following following criteria criteria a a the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the ai ai system system b b the the extent extent to to which which an an ai ai system system has has been been used used or or is is likely likely to to be be used used c c the the extent extent to to which which the the use use of of an an ai ai system system has has already already caused caused harm harm to to the the health health and and safety safety or or adverse adverse impact impact on on the the fundamental fundamental rights rights or or has has given given rise rise to to significant significant concerns concerns in in relation relation to to the the materialisation materialisation of of such such harm harm or or adverse adverse impact impact as as demonstrated demonstrated by by reports reports or or documented documented allegations allegations submitted submitted to to national national competent competent authorities authorities d d the the potential potential extent extent of of such such harm harm or or such such adverse adverse impact impact in in particular particular in in terms terms of of its its intensity intensity and and its its ability ability to to affect affect a a plurality plurality of of persons persons e e the the extent extent to to which which potentially potentially harmed harmed or or adversely adversely impacted impacted persons persons are are dependent dependent on on the the outcome outcome produced produced with with an an ai ai system system in in particular particular because because for for practical practical or or legal legal reasons reasons it it is is not not reasonably reasonably possible possible to to opt-out opt-out from from that that outcome outcome f f the the extent extent to to which which potentially potentially harmed harmed or or adversely adversely impacted impacted persons persons are are in in a a vulnerable vulnerable position position in in relation relation to to the the user user of of an an ai ai system system in in particular particular due due to to an an imbalance imbalance of of power power knowledge knowledge economic economic or or social social circumstances circumstances or or age age g g the the extent extent to to which which the the outcome outcome produced produced with with an an ai ai system system is is not not easily easily reversible reversible whereby whereby outcomes outcomes having having an an impact impact on on the the health health or or safety safety of of persons persons shall shall not not be be considered considered as as easily easily reversible reversible tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en h h the the extent extent to to which which existing existing union union legislation legislation provides provides for for i i effective effective measures measures of of redress redress in in relation relation to to the the risks risks posed posed by by an an ai ai system system with with the the exclusion exclusion of of claims claims for for damages damages ii ii effective effective measures measures to to prevent prevent or or substantially substantially minimise minimise those those risks risks i i the the magnitude magnitude and and likelihood likelihood of of benefit benefit of of the the ai ai use use for for individuals individuals groups groups or or society society at at large.
when assessing for assessing for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of paragraph of paragraph whether paragraph whether an whether an ai an ai system ai system poses system poses a poses a risk a risk of risk of harm of harm to harm to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety or safety or a or a risk a risk of risk of adverse of adverse impact adverse impact on impact on fundamental on fundamental rights fundamental rights that rights that is that is equivalent is equivalent to equivalent to or to or greater or greater than greater than the than the risk the risk of risk of harm of harm posed harm posed by posed by the by the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems already systems already referred already referred to referred to in to in annex in annex iii annex iii the iii the commission the commission shall commission shall take shall take into take into account into account the account the following the following criteria following criteria a criteria a the a the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the ai the ai system ai system b system b the b the extent the extent to extent to which to which an which an ai an ai system ai system has system has been has been used been used or used or is or is likely is likely to likely to be to be used be used c used c the c the extent the extent to extent to which to which the which the use the use of use of an of an ai an ai system ai system has system has already has already caused already caused harm caused harm to harm to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety or safety or adverse or adverse impact adverse impact on impact on the on the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights or rights or has or has given has given rise given rise to rise to significant to significant concerns significant concerns in concerns in relation in relation to relation to the to the materialisation the materialisation of materialisation of such of such harm such harm or harm or adverse or adverse impact adverse impact as impact as demonstrated as demonstrated by demonstrated by reports by reports or reports or documented or documented allegations documented allegations submitted allegations submitted to submitted to national to national competent national competent authorities competent authorities d authorities d the d the potential the potential extent potential extent of extent of such of such harm such harm or harm or such or such adverse such adverse impact adverse impact in impact in particular in particular in particular in terms in terms of terms of its of its intensity its intensity and intensity and its and its ability its ability to ability to affect to affect a affect a plurality a plurality of plurality of persons of persons e persons e the e the extent the extent to extent to which to which potentially which potentially harmed potentially harmed or harmed or adversely or adversely impacted adversely impacted persons impacted persons are persons are dependent are dependent on dependent on the on the outcome the outcome produced outcome produced with produced with an with an ai an ai system ai system in system in particular in particular because particular because for because for practical for practical or practical or legal or legal reasons legal reasons it reasons it is it is not is not reasonably not reasonably possible reasonably possible to possible to opt-out to opt-out from opt-out from that from that outcome that outcome f outcome f the f the extent the extent to extent to which to which potentially which potentially harmed potentially harmed or harmed or adversely or adversely impacted adversely impacted persons impacted persons are persons are in are in a in a vulnerable a vulnerable position vulnerable position in position in relation in relation to relation to the to the user the user of user of an of an ai an ai system ai system in system in particular in particular due particular due to due to an to an imbalance an imbalance of imbalance of power of power knowledge power knowledge economic knowledge economic or economic or social or social circumstances social circumstances or circumstances or age or age g age g the g the extent the extent to extent to which to which the which the outcome the outcome produced outcome produced with produced with an with an ai an ai system ai system is system is not is not easily not easily reversible easily reversible whereby reversible whereby outcomes whereby outcomes having outcomes having an having an impact an impact on impact on the on the health the health or health or safety or safety of safety of persons of persons shall persons shall not shall not be not be considered be considered as considered as easily as easily reversible easily reversible tree..b reversible tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en h en h the h the extent the extent to extent to which to which existing which existing union existing union legislation union legislation provides legislation provides for provides for i for i effective i effective measures effective measures of measures of redress of redress in redress in relation in relation to relation to the to the risks the risks posed risks posed by posed by an by an ai an ai system ai system with system with the with the exclusion the exclusion of exclusion of claims of claims for claims for damages for damages ii damages ii effective ii effective measures effective measures to measures to prevent to prevent or prevent or substantially or substantially minimise substantially minimise those minimise those risks those risks i risks i the i the magnitude the magnitude and magnitude and likelihood and likelihood of likelihood of benefit of benefit of benefit of the of the ai the ai use ai use for use for individuals for individuals groups individuals groups or groups or society or society at society at large.
when assessing for the assessing for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of paragraph purposes of paragraph whether of paragraph whether an paragraph whether an ai whether an ai system an ai system poses ai system poses a system poses a risk poses a risk of a risk of harm risk of harm to of harm to the harm to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety or and safety or a safety or a risk or a risk of a risk of adverse risk of adverse impact of adverse impact on adverse impact on fundamental impact on fundamental rights on fundamental rights that fundamental rights that is rights that is equivalent that is equivalent to is equivalent to or equivalent to or greater to or greater than or greater than the greater than the risk than the risk of the risk of harm risk of harm posed of harm posed by harm posed by the posed by the high-risk by the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems already ai systems already referred systems already referred to already referred to in referred to in annex to in annex iii in annex iii the annex iii the commission iii the commission shall the commission shall take commission shall take into shall take into account take into account the into account the following account the following criteria the following criteria a following criteria a the criteria a the intended a the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the ai of the ai system the ai system b ai system b the system b the extent b the extent to the extent to which extent to which an to which an ai which an ai system an ai system has ai system has been system has been used has been used or been used or is used or is likely or is likely to is likely to be likely to be used to be used c be used c the used c the extent c the extent to the extent to which extent to which the to which the use which the use of the use of an use of an ai of an ai system an ai system has ai system has already system has already caused has already caused harm already caused harm to caused harm to the harm to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety or and safety or adverse safety or adverse impact or adverse impact on adverse impact on the impact on the fundamental on the fundamental rights the fundamental rights or fundamental rights or has rights or has given or has given rise has given rise to given rise to significant rise to significant concerns to significant concerns in significant concerns in relation concerns in relation to in relation to the relation to the materialisation to the materialisation of the materialisation of such materialisation of such harm of such harm or such harm or adverse harm or adverse impact or adverse impact as adverse impact as demonstrated impact as demonstrated by as demonstrated by reports demonstrated by reports or by reports or documented reports or documented allegations or documented allegations submitted documented allegations submitted to allegations submitted to national submitted to national competent to national competent authorities national competent authorities d competent authorities d the authorities d the potential d the potential extent the potential extent of potential extent of such extent of such harm of such harm or such harm or such harm or such adverse or such adverse impact such adverse impact in adverse impact in particular impact in particular in in particular in terms particular in terms of in terms of its terms of its intensity of its intensity and its intensity and its intensity and its ability and its ability to its ability to affect ability to affect a to affect a plurality affect a plurality of a plurality of persons plurality of persons e of persons e the persons e the extent e the extent to the extent to which extent to which potentially to which potentially harmed which potentially harmed or potentially harmed or adversely harmed or adversely impacted or adversely impacted persons adversely impacted persons are impacted persons are dependent persons are dependent on are dependent on the dependent on the outcome on the outcome produced the outcome produced with outcome produced with an produced with an ai with an ai system an ai system in ai system in particular system in particular because in particular because for particular because for practical because for practical or for practical or legal practical or legal reasons or legal reasons it legal reasons it is reasons it is not it is not reasonably is not reasonably possible not reasonably possible to reasonably possible to opt-out possible to opt-out from to opt-out from that opt-out from that outcome from that outcome f that outcome f the outcome f the extent f the extent to the extent to which extent to which potentially to which potentially harmed which potentially harmed or potentially harmed or adversely harmed or adversely impacted or adversely impacted persons adversely impacted persons are impacted persons are in persons are in a are in a vulnerable in a vulnerable position a vulnerable position in vulnerable position in relation position in relation to in relation to the relation to the user to the user of the user of an user of an ai of an ai system an ai system in ai system in particular system in particular due in particular due to particular due to an due to an imbalance to an imbalance of an imbalance of power imbalance of power knowledge of power knowledge economic power knowledge economic or knowledge economic or social economic or social circumstances or social circumstances or social circumstances or age circumstances or age g or age g the age g the extent g the extent to the extent to which extent to which the to which the outcome which the outcome produced the outcome produced with outcome produced with an produced with an ai with an ai system an ai system is ai system is not system is not easily is not easily reversible not easily reversible whereby easily reversible whereby outcomes reversible whereby outcomes having whereby outcomes having an outcomes having an impact having an impact on an impact on the impact on the health on the health or the health or safety health or safety of or safety of persons safety of persons shall of persons shall not persons shall not be shall not be considered not be considered as be considered as easily considered as easily reversible as easily reversible tree..b easily reversible tree..b rbek reversible tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en h rbek en h the en h the extent h the extent to the extent to which extent to which existing to which existing union which existing union legislation existing union legislation provides union legislation provides for legislation provides for i provides for i effective for i effective measures i effective measures of effective measures of redress measures of redress in of redress in relation redress in relation to in relation to the relation to the risks to the risks posed the risks posed by risks posed by an posed by an ai by an ai system an ai system with ai system with the system with the exclusion with the exclusion of the exclusion of claims exclusion of claims for of claims for damages claims for damages ii for damages ii effective damages ii effective measures ii effective measures to effective measures to prevent measures to prevent or to prevent or substantially prevent or substantially minimise or substantially minimise those substantially minimise those risks minimise those risks i those risks i the risks i the magnitude i the magnitude and the magnitude and likelihood magnitude and likelihood of and likelihood of benefit likelihood of benefit of of benefit of the benefit of the ai of the ai use the ai use for ai use for individuals use for individuals groups for individuals groups or individuals groups or society groups or society at or society at large.
the commission commission is is empowered empowered to to adopt adopt delegated delegated acts acts in in accordance accordance with with article article to to amend amend the the list list in in annex annex iii iii by by removing removing high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems where where both both of of the the following following conditions conditions are are fulfilled fulfilled a a the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems concerned concerned no no longer longer pose pose any any significant significant risks risks to to fundamental fundamental rights rights health health or or safety safety taking taking into into account account the the criteria criteria listed listed in in paragraph paragraph b b the the deletion deletion does does not not decrease decrease the the overall overall level level of of protection protection of of health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights under under union union law.
the commission is commission is empowered is empowered to empowered to adopt to adopt delegated adopt delegated acts delegated acts in acts in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article to article to amend to amend the amend the list the list in list in annex in annex iii annex iii by iii by removing by removing high-risk removing high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems where systems where both where both of both of the of the following the following conditions following conditions are conditions are fulfilled are fulfilled a fulfilled a the a the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems concerned systems concerned no concerned no longer no longer pose longer pose any pose any significant any significant risks significant risks to risks to fundamental to fundamental rights fundamental rights health rights health or health or safety or safety taking safety taking into taking into account into account the account the criteria the criteria listed criteria listed in listed in paragraph in paragraph b paragraph b the b the deletion the deletion does deletion does not does not decrease not decrease the decrease the overall the overall level overall level of level of protection of protection of protection of health of health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights under rights under union under union law.
the commission is empowered commission is empowered to is empowered to adopt empowered to adopt delegated to adopt delegated acts adopt delegated acts in delegated acts in accordance acts in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article to with article to amend article to amend the to amend the list amend the list in the list in annex list in annex iii in annex iii by annex iii by removing iii by removing high-risk by removing high-risk ai removing high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems where ai systems where both systems where both of where both of the both of the following of the following conditions the following conditions are following conditions are fulfilled conditions are fulfilled a are fulfilled a the fulfilled a the high-risk a the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems concerned ai systems concerned no systems concerned no longer concerned no longer pose no longer pose any longer pose any significant pose any significant risks any significant risks to significant risks to fundamental risks to fundamental rights to fundamental rights health fundamental rights health or rights health or safety health or safety taking or safety taking into safety taking into account taking into account the into account the criteria account the criteria listed the criteria listed in criteria listed in paragraph listed in paragraph b in paragraph b the paragraph b the deletion b the deletion does the deletion does not deletion does not decrease does not decrease the not decrease the overall decrease the overall level the overall level of overall level of protection level of protection of of protection of health protection of health safety of health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights under fundamental rights under union rights under union law.
chapter requirements requirements for for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems article article compliance compliance with with the the requirements requirements .
chapter requirements for requirements for high-risk for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems article systems article compliance article compliance with compliance with the with the requirements the requirements .
chapter requirements for high-risk requirements for high-risk ai for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems article ai systems article compliance systems article compliance with article compliance with the compliance with the requirements with the requirements .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall comply comply with with the the requirements requirements established established in in this this chapter chapter taking taking into into account account the the generally generally acknowledged acknowledged state state of of the the art.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall comply shall comply with comply with the with the requirements the requirements established requirements established in established in this in this chapter this chapter taking chapter taking into taking into account into account the account the generally the generally acknowledged generally acknowledged state acknowledged state of state of the of the art.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall comply systems shall comply with shall comply with the comply with the requirements with the requirements established the requirements established in requirements established in this established in this chapter in this chapter taking this chapter taking into chapter taking into account taking into account the into account the generally account the generally acknowledged the generally acknowledged state generally acknowledged state of acknowledged state of the state of the art.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and the the risk risk management management system system referred referred to to in in article article shall shall be be taken taken into into account account when when ensuring ensuring compliance compliance with with those those requirements.
the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and the and the risk the risk management risk management system management system referred system referred to referred to in to in article in article shall article shall be shall be taken be taken into taken into account into account when account when ensuring when ensuring compliance ensuring compliance with compliance with those with those requirements.
the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and the system and the risk and the risk management the risk management system risk management system referred management system referred to system referred to in referred to in article to in article shall in article shall be article shall be taken shall be taken into be taken into account taken into account when into account when ensuring account when ensuring compliance when ensuring compliance with ensuring compliance with those compliance with those requirements.
article risk risk management management system system .
article risk management risk management system management system .
article risk management system risk management system .
a risk risk management management system system shall shall be be established established implemented implemented documented documented and and maintained maintained in in relation relation to to high-risk high-risk ai ai systems.
a risk management risk management system management system shall system shall be shall be established be established implemented established implemented documented implemented documented and documented and maintained and maintained in maintained in relation in relation to relation to high-risk to high-risk ai high-risk ai systems.
a risk management system risk management system shall management system shall be system shall be established shall be established implemented be established implemented documented established implemented documented and implemented documented and maintained documented and maintained in and maintained in relation maintained in relation to in relation to high-risk relation to high-risk ai to high-risk ai systems.
the risk risk management management system system shall shall be be understood understood as as a a continuous continuous iterative iterative process process planned planned and and run run throughout throughout the the entire entire lifecycle lifecycle of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system requiring requiring regular regular systematic systematic updating.
the risk management risk management system management system shall system shall be shall be understood be understood as understood as a as a continuous a continuous iterative continuous iterative process iterative process planned process planned and planned and run and run throughout run throughout the throughout the entire the entire lifecycle entire lifecycle of lifecycle of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system requiring system requiring regular requiring regular systematic regular systematic updating.
the risk management system risk management system shall management system shall be system shall be understood shall be understood as be understood as a understood as a continuous as a continuous iterative a continuous iterative process continuous iterative process planned iterative process planned and process planned and run planned and run throughout and run throughout the run throughout the entire throughout the entire lifecycle the entire lifecycle of entire lifecycle of a lifecycle of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system requiring ai system requiring regular system requiring regular systematic requiring regular systematic updating.
it shall shall comprise comprise the the following following steps steps a a identification identification and and analysis analysis of of the the known known and and foreseeable foreseeable risks risks most most likely likely to to occur occur to to health health safety safety and and fundamental fundamental rights rights in in view view of of the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system b b deleted deleted c c evaluation evaluation of of other other possibly possibly arising arising risks risks based based on on the the analysis analysis of of data data gathered gathered from from the the post-market post-market monitoring monitoring system system referred referred to to in in article article d d adoption adoption of of suitable suitable risk risk management management measures measures in in accordance accordance with with the the provisions provisions of of the the following following paragraphs.
it shall comprise shall comprise the comprise the following the following steps following steps a steps a identification a identification and identification and analysis and analysis of analysis of the of the known the known and known and foreseeable and foreseeable risks foreseeable risks most risks most likely most likely to likely to occur to occur to occur to health to health safety health safety and safety and fundamental and fundamental rights fundamental rights in rights in view in view of view of the of the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system b system b deleted b deleted c deleted c evaluation c evaluation of evaluation of other of other possibly other possibly arising possibly arising risks arising risks based risks based on based on the on the analysis the analysis of analysis of data of data gathered data gathered from gathered from the from the post-market the post-market monitoring post-market monitoring system monitoring system referred system referred to referred to in to in article in article d article d adoption d adoption of adoption of suitable of suitable risk suitable risk management risk management measures management measures in measures in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the provisions the provisions of provisions of the of the following the following paragraphs.
it shall comprise the shall comprise the following comprise the following steps the following steps a following steps a identification steps a identification and a identification and analysis identification and analysis of and analysis of the analysis of the known of the known and the known and foreseeable known and foreseeable risks and foreseeable risks most foreseeable risks most likely risks most likely to most likely to occur likely to occur to to occur to health occur to health safety to health safety and health safety and fundamental safety and fundamental rights and fundamental rights in fundamental rights in view rights in view of in view of the view of the intended of the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system b ai system b deleted system b deleted c b deleted c evaluation deleted c evaluation of c evaluation of other evaluation of other possibly of other possibly arising other possibly arising risks possibly arising risks based arising risks based on risks based on the based on the analysis on the analysis of the analysis of data analysis of data gathered of data gathered from data gathered from the gathered from the post-market from the post-market monitoring the post-market monitoring system post-market monitoring system referred monitoring system referred to system referred to in referred to in article to in article d in article d adoption article d adoption of d adoption of suitable adoption of suitable risk of suitable risk management suitable risk management measures risk management measures in management measures in accordance measures in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the provisions with the provisions of the provisions of the provisions of the following of the following paragraphs.
the risks risks referred referred to to in in this this paragraph paragraph shall shall concern concern only only those those which which may may be be reasonably reasonably mitigated mitigated or or eliminated eliminated through through the the development development or or design design of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or the the provision provision of of adequate adequate technical technical information.
the risks referred risks referred to referred to in to in this in this paragraph this paragraph shall paragraph shall concern shall concern only concern only those only those which those which may which may be may be reasonably be reasonably mitigated reasonably mitigated or mitigated or eliminated or eliminated through eliminated through the through the development the development or development or design or design of design of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or the or the provision the provision of provision of adequate of adequate technical adequate technical information.
the risks referred to risks referred to in referred to in this to in this paragraph in this paragraph shall this paragraph shall concern paragraph shall concern only shall concern only those concern only those which only those which may those which may be which may be reasonably may be reasonably mitigated be reasonably mitigated or reasonably mitigated or eliminated mitigated or eliminated through or eliminated through the eliminated through the development through the development or the development or design development or design of or design of the design of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or the system or the provision or the provision of the provision of adequate provision of adequate technical of adequate technical information.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
the risk risk management management measures measures referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point d d shall shall give give due due consideration consideration to to the the effects effects and and possible possible interaction interaction resulting resulting from from the the combined combined application application of of the the requirements requirements set set out out in in this this chapter chapter with with a a view view to to minimising minimising risks risks more more effectively effectively while while achieving achieving an an appropriate appropriate balance balance in in implementing implementing the the measures measures to to fulfil fulfil those those requirements.
the risk management risk management measures management measures referred measures referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d shall d shall give shall give due give due consideration due consideration to consideration to the to the effects the effects and effects and possible and possible interaction possible interaction resulting interaction resulting from resulting from the from the combined the combined application combined application of application of the of the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in this in this chapter this chapter with chapter with a with a view a view to view to minimising to minimising risks minimising risks more risks more effectively more effectively while effectively while achieving while achieving an achieving an appropriate an appropriate balance appropriate balance in balance in implementing in implementing the implementing the measures the measures to measures to fulfil to fulfil those fulfil those requirements.
the risk management measures risk management measures referred management measures referred to measures referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d shall point d shall give d shall give due shall give due consideration give due consideration to due consideration to the consideration to the effects to the effects and the effects and possible effects and possible interaction and possible interaction resulting possible interaction resulting from interaction resulting from the resulting from the combined from the combined application the combined application of combined application of the application of the requirements of the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in this out in this chapter in this chapter with this chapter with a chapter with a view with a view to a view to minimising view to minimising risks to minimising risks more minimising risks more effectively risks more effectively while more effectively while achieving effectively while achieving an while achieving an appropriate achieving an appropriate balance an appropriate balance in appropriate balance in implementing balance in implementing the in implementing the measures implementing the measures to the measures to fulfil measures to fulfil those to fulfil those requirements.
the risk risk management management measures measures referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point d d shall shall be be such such that that any any residual residual risk risk associated associated with with each each hazard hazard as as well well as as the the overall overall residual residual risk risk of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems is is judged judged acceptable.
the risk management risk management measures management measures referred measures referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point d point d shall d shall be shall be such be such that such that any that any residual any residual risk residual risk associated risk associated with associated with each with each hazard each hazard as hazard as well as well as well as the as the overall the overall residual overall residual risk residual risk of risk of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems is systems is judged is judged acceptable.
the risk management measures risk management measures referred management measures referred to measures referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point d paragraph point d shall point d shall be d shall be such shall be such that be such that any such that any residual that any residual risk any residual risk associated residual risk associated with risk associated with each associated with each hazard with each hazard as each hazard as well hazard as well as as well as the well as the overall as the overall residual the overall residual risk overall residual risk of residual risk of the risk of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems is ai systems is judged systems is judged acceptable.
in identifying identifying the the most most appropriate appropriate risk risk management management measures measures the the following following shall shall be be ensured ensured a a elimination elimination or or reduction reduction of of risks risks identified identified and and evaluated evaluated pursuant pursuant to to paragraph paragraph as as far far as as possible possible through through adequate adequate design design and and development development of of the the high high risk risk ai ai system system b b where where appropriate appropriate implementation implementation of of adequate adequate mitigation mitigation and and control control measures measures in in relation relation to to risks risks that that cannot cannot be be eliminated eliminated c c provision provision of of adequate adequate information information pursuant pursuant to to article article in in particular particular as as regards regards the the risks risks referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point b b of of this this article article and and where where appropriate appropriate training training to to users.
in identifying the identifying the most the most appropriate most appropriate risk appropriate risk management risk management measures management measures the measures the following the following shall following shall be shall be ensured be ensured a ensured a elimination a elimination or elimination or reduction or reduction of reduction of risks of risks identified risks identified and identified and evaluated and evaluated pursuant evaluated pursuant to pursuant to paragraph to paragraph as paragraph as far as far as far as possible as possible through possible through adequate through adequate design adequate design and design and development and development of development of the of the high the high risk high risk ai risk ai system ai system b system b where b where appropriate where appropriate implementation appropriate implementation of implementation of adequate of adequate mitigation adequate mitigation and mitigation and control and control measures control measures in measures in relation in relation to relation to risks to risks that risks that cannot that cannot be cannot be eliminated be eliminated c eliminated c provision c provision of provision of adequate of adequate information adequate information pursuant information pursuant to pursuant to article to article in article in particular in particular as particular as regards as regards the regards the risks the risks referred risks referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point b point b of b of this of this article this article and article and where and where appropriate where appropriate training appropriate training to training to users.
in identifying the most identifying the most appropriate the most appropriate risk most appropriate risk management appropriate risk management measures risk management measures the management measures the following measures the following shall the following shall be following shall be ensured shall be ensured a be ensured a elimination ensured a elimination or a elimination or reduction elimination or reduction of or reduction of risks reduction of risks identified of risks identified and risks identified and evaluated identified and evaluated pursuant and evaluated pursuant to evaluated pursuant to paragraph pursuant to paragraph as to paragraph as far paragraph as far as as far as possible far as possible through as possible through adequate possible through adequate design through adequate design and adequate design and development design and development of and development of the development of the high of the high risk the high risk ai high risk ai system risk ai system b ai system b where system b where appropriate b where appropriate implementation where appropriate implementation of appropriate implementation of adequate implementation of adequate mitigation of adequate mitigation and adequate mitigation and control mitigation and control measures and control measures in control measures in relation measures in relation to in relation to risks relation to risks that to risks that cannot risks that cannot be that cannot be eliminated cannot be eliminated c be eliminated c provision eliminated c provision of c provision of adequate provision of adequate information of adequate information pursuant adequate information pursuant to information pursuant to article pursuant to article in to article in particular article in particular as in particular as regards particular as regards the as regards the risks regards the risks referred the risks referred to risks referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point b paragraph point b of point b of this b of this article of this article and this article and where article and where appropriate and where appropriate training where appropriate training to appropriate training to users.
with a a view view to to eliminating eliminating or or reducing reducing risks risks related related to to the the use use of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system due due consideration consideration shall shall be be given given to to the the technical technical knowledge knowledge experience experience education education training training to to be be expected expected by by the the user user and and the the environment environment in in which which the the system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
with a view a view to view to eliminating to eliminating or eliminating or reducing or reducing risks reducing risks related risks related to related to the to the use the use of use of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system due system due consideration due consideration shall consideration shall be shall be given be given to given to the to the technical the technical knowledge technical knowledge experience knowledge experience education experience education training education training to training to be to be expected be expected by expected by the by the user the user and user and the and the environment the environment in environment in which in which the which the system the system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
with a view to a view to eliminating view to eliminating or to eliminating or reducing eliminating or reducing risks or reducing risks related reducing risks related to risks related to the related to the use to the use of the use of the use of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system due ai system due consideration system due consideration shall due consideration shall be consideration shall be given shall be given to be given to the given to the technical to the technical knowledge the technical knowledge experience technical knowledge experience education knowledge experience education training experience education training to education training to be training to be expected to be expected by be expected by the expected by the user by the user and the user and the user and the environment and the environment in the environment in which environment in which the in which the system which the system is the system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be tested tested in in order order to to ensure ensure that that high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems perform perform in in a a manner manner that that is is consistent consistent with with their their intended intended purpose purpose and and they they are are in in compliance compliance with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in this this chapter.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be tested be tested in tested in order in order to order to ensure to ensure that ensure that high-risk that high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems perform systems perform in perform in a in a manner a manner that manner that is that is consistent is consistent with consistent with their with their intended their intended purpose intended purpose and purpose and they and they are they are in are in compliance in compliance with compliance with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in this in this chapter.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be tested shall be tested in be tested in order tested in order to in order to ensure order to ensure that to ensure that high-risk ensure that high-risk ai that high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems perform ai systems perform in systems perform in a perform in a manner in a manner that a manner that is manner that is consistent that is consistent with is consistent with their consistent with their intended with their intended purpose their intended purpose and intended purpose and they purpose and they are and they are in they are in compliance are in compliance with in compliance with the compliance with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in this out in this chapter.
testing procedures procedures may may include include testing testing in in real real world world conditions conditions in in accordance accordance with with article article a. a. tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en .
testing procedures may procedures may include may include testing include testing in testing in real in real world real world conditions world conditions in conditions in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article a. article a. tree..b a. tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en .
testing procedures may include procedures may include testing may include testing in include testing in real testing in real world in real world conditions real world conditions in world conditions in accordance conditions in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article a. with article a. tree..b article a. tree..b rbek a. tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en .
the testing testing of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be performed performed as as appropriate appropriate at at any any point point in in time time throughout throughout the the development development process process and and in in any any event event prior prior to to the the placing placing on on the the market market or or the the putting putting into into service.
the testing of testing of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be performed be performed as performed as appropriate as appropriate at appropriate at any at any point any point in point in time in time throughout time throughout the throughout the development the development process development process and process and in and in any in any event any event prior event prior to prior to the to the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or the or the putting the putting into putting into service.
the testing of the testing of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be performed shall be performed as be performed as appropriate performed as appropriate at as appropriate at any appropriate at any point at any point in any point in time point in time throughout in time throughout the time throughout the development throughout the development process the development process and development process and in process and in any and in any event in any event prior any event prior to event prior to the prior to the placing to the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or the market or the putting or the putting into the putting into service.
testing shall shall be be made made against against preliminarily preliminarily defined defined metrics metrics and and probabilistic probabilistic thresholds thresholds that that are are appropriate appropriate to to the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
testing shall be shall be made be made against made against preliminarily against preliminarily defined preliminarily defined metrics defined metrics and metrics and probabilistic and probabilistic thresholds probabilistic thresholds that thresholds that are that are appropriate are appropriate to appropriate to the to the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
testing shall be made shall be made against be made against preliminarily made against preliminarily defined against preliminarily defined metrics preliminarily defined metrics and defined metrics and probabilistic metrics and probabilistic thresholds and probabilistic thresholds that probabilistic thresholds that are thresholds that are appropriate that are appropriate to are appropriate to the appropriate to the intended to the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system.
the risk risk management management system system described described in in paragraphs paragraphs to to shall shall give give specific specific consideration consideration to to whether whether the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is likely likely to to be be accessed accessed by by or or have have an an impact impact on on persons persons under under the the age age of of .
the risk management risk management system management system described system described in described in paragraphs in paragraphs to paragraphs to shall to shall give shall give specific give specific consideration specific consideration to consideration to whether to whether the whether the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is likely is likely to likely to be to be accessed be accessed by accessed by or by or have or have an have an impact an impact on impact on persons on persons under persons under the under the age the age of age of .
the risk management system risk management system described management system described in system described in paragraphs described in paragraphs to in paragraphs to shall paragraphs to shall give to shall give specific shall give specific consideration give specific consideration to specific consideration to whether consideration to whether the to whether the high-risk whether the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is likely system is likely to is likely to be likely to be accessed to be accessed by be accessed by or accessed by or have by or have an or have an impact have an impact on an impact on persons impact on persons under on persons under the persons under the age under the age of the age of .
for providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding internal internal risk risk management management processes processes under under relevant relevant sectorial sectorial union union law law the the aspects aspects described described in in paragraphs paragraphs to to may may be be part part of of the the risk risk management management procedures procedures established established pursuant pursuant to to that that law.
for providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are subject are subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding internal regarding internal risk internal risk management risk management processes management processes under processes under relevant under relevant sectorial relevant sectorial union sectorial union law union law the law the aspects the aspects described aspects described in described in paragraphs in paragraphs to paragraphs to may to may be may be part be part of part of the of the risk the risk management risk management procedures management procedures established procedures established pursuant established pursuant to pursuant to that to that law.
for providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are subject that are subject to are subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding internal requirements regarding internal risk regarding internal risk management internal risk management processes risk management processes under management processes under relevant processes under relevant sectorial under relevant sectorial union relevant sectorial union law sectorial union law the union law the aspects law the aspects described the aspects described in aspects described in paragraphs described in paragraphs to in paragraphs to may paragraphs to may be to may be part may be part of be part of the part of the risk of the risk management the risk management procedures risk management procedures established management procedures established pursuant procedures established pursuant to established pursuant to that pursuant to that law.
article data data and and data data governance governance .
article data and data and data and data governance data governance .
article data and data data and data governance and data governance .
high-risk ai ai systems systems which which make make use use of of techniques techniques involving involving the the training training of of models models with with data data shall shall be be developed developed on on the the basis basis of of training training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets that that meet meet the the quality quality criteria criteria referred referred to to in in paragraphs paragraphs to to .
high-risk ai systems ai systems which systems which make which make use make use of use of techniques of techniques involving techniques involving the involving the training the training of training of models of models with models with data with data shall data shall be shall be developed be developed on developed on the on the basis the basis of basis of training of training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets that sets that meet that meet the meet the quality the quality criteria quality criteria referred criteria referred to referred to in to in paragraphs in paragraphs to paragraphs to .
high-risk ai systems which ai systems which make systems which make use which make use of make use of techniques use of techniques involving of techniques involving the techniques involving the training involving the training of the training of models training of models with of models with data models with data shall with data shall be data shall be developed shall be developed on be developed on the developed on the basis on the basis of the basis of training basis of training validation of training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets that data sets that meet sets that meet the that meet the quality meet the quality criteria the quality criteria referred quality criteria referred to criteria referred to in referred to in paragraphs to in paragraphs to in paragraphs to .
training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets shall shall be be subject subject to to appropriate appropriate data data governance governance and and management management practices.
training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets shall sets shall be shall be subject be subject to subject to appropriate to appropriate data appropriate data governance data governance and governance and management and management practices.
training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets shall data sets shall be sets shall be subject shall be subject to be subject to appropriate subject to appropriate data to appropriate data governance appropriate data governance and data governance and management governance and management practices.
those practices practices shall shall concern concern in in particular particular a a the the relevant relevant design design choices choices b b data data collection collection processes processes c c relevant relevant data data preparation preparation processing processing operations operations such such as as annotation annotation labelling labelling cleaning cleaning enrichment enrichment and and aggregation aggregation tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en d d the the formulation formulation of of relevant relevant assumptions assumptions notably notably with with respect respect to to the the information information that that the the data data are are supposed supposed to to measure measure and and represent represent e e a a prior prior assessment assessment of of the the availability availability quantity quantity and and suitability suitability of of the the data data sets sets that that are are needed needed f f examination examination in in view view of of possible possible biases biases that that are are likely likely to to affect affect health health and and safety safety of of natural natural persons persons or or lead lead to to discrimination discrimination prohibited prohibited by by union union law law g g the the identification identification of of any any possible possible data data gaps gaps or or shortcomings shortcomings and and how how those those gaps gaps and and shortcomings shortcomings can can be be addressed.
those practices shall practices shall concern shall concern in concern in particular in particular a particular a the a the relevant the relevant design relevant design choices design choices b choices b data b data collection data collection processes collection processes c processes c relevant c relevant data relevant data preparation data preparation processing preparation processing operations processing operations such operations such as such as annotation as annotation labelling annotation labelling cleaning labelling cleaning enrichment cleaning enrichment and enrichment and aggregation and aggregation tree..b aggregation tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en d en d the d the formulation the formulation of formulation of relevant of relevant assumptions relevant assumptions notably assumptions notably with notably with respect with respect to respect to the to the information the information that information that the that the data the data are data are supposed are supposed to supposed to measure to measure and measure and represent and represent e represent e a e a prior a prior assessment prior assessment of assessment of the of the availability the availability quantity availability quantity and quantity and suitability and suitability of suitability of the of the data the data sets data sets that sets that are that are needed are needed f needed f examination f examination in examination in view in view of view of possible of possible biases possible biases that biases that are that are likely are likely to likely to affect to affect health affect health and health and safety and safety of safety of natural of natural persons natural persons or persons or lead or lead to lead to discrimination to discrimination prohibited discrimination prohibited by prohibited by union by union law union law g law g the g the identification the identification of identification of any of any possible any possible data possible data gaps data gaps or gaps or shortcomings or shortcomings and shortcomings and how and how those how those gaps those gaps and gaps and shortcomings and shortcomings can shortcomings can be can be addressed.
those practices shall concern practices shall concern in shall concern in particular concern in particular a in particular a the particular a the relevant a the relevant design the relevant design choices relevant design choices b design choices b data choices b data collection b data collection processes data collection processes c collection processes c relevant processes c relevant data c relevant data preparation relevant data preparation processing data preparation processing operations preparation processing operations such processing operations such as operations such as annotation such as annotation labelling as annotation labelling cleaning annotation labelling cleaning enrichment labelling cleaning enrichment and cleaning enrichment and aggregation enrichment and aggregation tree..b and aggregation tree..b rbek aggregation tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en d rbek en d the en d the formulation d the formulation of the formulation of relevant formulation of relevant assumptions of relevant assumptions notably relevant assumptions notably with assumptions notably with respect notably with respect to with respect to the respect to the information to the information that the information that the information that the data that the data are the data are supposed data are supposed to are supposed to measure supposed to measure and to measure and represent measure and represent e and represent e a represent e a prior e a prior assessment a prior assessment of prior assessment of the assessment of the availability of the availability quantity the availability quantity and availability quantity and suitability quantity and suitability of and suitability of the suitability of the data of the data sets the data sets that data sets that are sets that are needed that are needed f are needed f examination needed f examination in f examination in view examination in view of in view of possible view of possible biases of possible biases that possible biases that are biases that are likely that are likely to are likely to affect likely to affect health to affect health and affect health and safety health and safety of and safety of natural safety of natural persons of natural persons or natural persons or lead persons or lead to or lead to discrimination lead to discrimination prohibited to discrimination prohibited by discrimination prohibited by union prohibited by union law by union law g union law g the law g the identification g the identification of the identification of any identification of any possible of any possible data any possible data gaps possible data gaps or data gaps or shortcomings gaps or shortcomings and or shortcomings and how shortcomings and how those and how those gaps how those gaps and those gaps and shortcomings gaps and shortcomings can and shortcomings can be shortcomings can be addressed.
training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets shall shall be be relevant relevant representative representative and and to to the the best best extent extent possible possible free free of of errors errors and and complete.
training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets shall sets shall be shall be relevant be relevant representative relevant representative and representative and to and to the to the best the best extent best extent possible extent possible free possible free of free of errors of errors and errors and complete.
training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets shall data sets shall be sets shall be relevant shall be relevant representative be relevant representative and relevant representative and to representative and to the and to the best to the best extent the best extent possible best extent possible free extent possible free of possible free of errors free of errors and of errors and complete.
they shall shall have have the the appropriate appropriate statistical statistical properties properties including including where where applicable applicable as as regards regards the the persons persons or or groups groups of of persons persons on on which which the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
they shall have shall have the have the appropriate the appropriate statistical appropriate statistical properties statistical properties including properties including where including where applicable where applicable as applicable as regards as regards the regards the persons the persons or persons or groups or groups of groups of persons of persons on persons on which on which the which the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
they shall have the shall have the appropriate have the appropriate statistical the appropriate statistical properties appropriate statistical properties including statistical properties including where properties including where applicable including where applicable as where applicable as regards applicable as regards the as regards the persons regards the persons or the persons or groups persons or groups of or groups of persons groups of persons on of persons on which persons on which the on which the high-risk which the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
these characteristics characteristics of of the the data data sets sets may may be be met met at at the the level level of of individual individual data data sets sets or or a a combination combination thereof.
these characteristics of characteristics of the of the data the data sets data sets may sets may be may be met be met at met at the at the level the level of level of individual of individual data individual data sets data sets or sets or a or a combination a combination thereof.
these characteristics of the characteristics of the data of the data sets the data sets may data sets may be sets may be met may be met at be met at the met at the level at the level of the level of individual level of individual data of individual data sets individual data sets or data sets or a sets or a combination or a combination thereof.
training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets shall shall take take into into account account to to the the extent extent required required by by the the intended intended purpose purpose the the characteristics characteristics or or elements elements that that are are particular particular to to the the specific specific geographical geographical behavioural behavioural or or functional functional setting setting within within which which the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used.
training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets shall sets shall take shall take into take into account into account to account to the to the extent the extent required extent required by required by the by the intended the intended purpose intended purpose the purpose the characteristics the characteristics or characteristics or elements or elements that elements that are that are particular are particular to particular to the to the specific the specific geographical specific geographical behavioural geographical behavioural or behavioural or functional or functional setting functional setting within setting within which within which the which the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used.
training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets shall data sets shall take sets shall take into shall take into account take into account to into account to the account to the extent to the extent required the extent required by extent required by the required by the intended by the intended purpose the intended purpose the intended purpose the characteristics purpose the characteristics or the characteristics or elements characteristics or elements that or elements that are elements that are particular that are particular to are particular to the particular to the specific to the specific geographical the specific geographical behavioural specific geographical behavioural or geographical behavioural or functional behavioural or functional setting or functional setting within functional setting within which setting within which the within which the high-risk which the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used.
to the the extent extent that that it it is is strictly strictly necessary necessary for for the the purposes purposes of of ensuring ensuring bias bias monitoring monitoring detection detection and and correction correction in in relation relation to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems the the providers providers of of such such systems systems may may process process special special categories categories of of personal personal data data referred referred to to in in article article of of regulation regulation eu eu article article of of directive directive eu eu and and article article of of regulation regulation eu eu subject subject to to appropriate appropriate safeguards safeguards for for the the fundamental fundamental rights rights and and freedoms freedoms of of natural natural persons persons including including technical technical limitations limitations on on the the re-use re-use and and use use of of state-of-the-art state-of-the-art security security and and privacy-preserving privacy-preserving measures measures such such as as pseudonymisation pseudonymisation or or encryption encryption where where anonymisation anonymisation may may significantly significantly affect affect the the purpose purpose pursued.
to the extent the extent that extent that it that it is it is strictly is strictly necessary strictly necessary for necessary for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of ensuring of ensuring bias ensuring bias monitoring bias monitoring detection monitoring detection and detection and correction and correction in correction in relation in relation to relation to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems the systems the providers the providers of providers of such of such systems such systems may systems may process may process special process special categories special categories of categories of personal of personal data personal data referred data referred to referred to in to in article in article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu article eu article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu and eu and article and article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu subject eu subject to subject to appropriate to appropriate safeguards appropriate safeguards for safeguards for the for the fundamental the fundamental rights fundamental rights and rights and freedoms and freedoms of freedoms of natural of natural persons natural persons including persons including technical including technical limitations technical limitations on limitations on the on the re-use the re-use and re-use and use and use of use of state-of-the-art of state-of-the-art security state-of-the-art security and security and privacy-preserving and privacy-preserving measures privacy-preserving measures such measures such as such as pseudonymisation as pseudonymisation or pseudonymisation or encryption or encryption where encryption where anonymisation where anonymisation may anonymisation may significantly may significantly affect significantly affect the affect the purpose the purpose pursued.
to the extent that the extent that it extent that it is that it is strictly it is strictly necessary is strictly necessary for strictly necessary for the necessary for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of ensuring purposes of ensuring bias of ensuring bias monitoring ensuring bias monitoring detection bias monitoring detection and monitoring detection and correction detection and correction in and correction in relation correction in relation to in relation to the relation to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems the ai systems the providers systems the providers of the providers of such providers of such systems of such systems may such systems may process systems may process special may process special categories process special categories of special categories of personal categories of personal data of personal data referred personal data referred to data referred to in referred to in article to in article of in article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu article regulation eu article of eu article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu and directive eu and article eu and article of and article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu subject regulation eu subject to eu subject to appropriate subject to appropriate safeguards to appropriate safeguards for appropriate safeguards for the safeguards for the fundamental for the fundamental rights the fundamental rights and fundamental rights and freedoms rights and freedoms of and freedoms of natural freedoms of natural persons of natural persons including natural persons including technical persons including technical limitations including technical limitations on technical limitations on the limitations on the re-use on the re-use and the re-use and use re-use and use of and use of state-of-the-art use of state-of-the-art security of state-of-the-art security and state-of-the-art security and privacy-preserving security and privacy-preserving measures and privacy-preserving measures such privacy-preserving measures such as measures such as pseudonymisation such as pseudonymisation or as pseudonymisation or encryption pseudonymisation or encryption where or encryption where anonymisation encryption where anonymisation may where anonymisation may significantly anonymisation may significantly affect may significantly affect the significantly affect the purpose affect the purpose pursued.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
for the the development development of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems not not using using techniques techniques involving involving the the training training of of models models paragraphs paragraphs to to shall shall apply apply only only to to the the testing testing data data sets.
for the development the development of development of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems not systems not using not using techniques using techniques involving techniques involving the involving the training the training of training of models of models paragraphs models paragraphs to paragraphs to shall to shall apply shall apply only apply only to only to the to the testing the testing data testing data sets.
for the development of the development of high-risk development of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems not ai systems not using systems not using techniques not using techniques involving using techniques involving the techniques involving the training involving the training of the training of models training of models paragraphs of models paragraphs to models paragraphs to shall paragraphs to shall apply to shall apply only shall apply only to apply only to the only to the testing to the testing data the testing data sets.
article technical technical documentation documentation .
article technical documentation technical documentation .
article technical documentation .
the technical technical documentation documentation of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system shall shall be be drawn drawn up up before before that that system system is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service and and shall shall be be kept kept up-to up-to date.
the technical documentation technical documentation of documentation of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system shall system shall be shall be drawn be drawn up drawn up before up before that before that system that system is system is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service and service and shall and shall be shall be kept be kept up-to kept up-to date.
the technical documentation of technical documentation of a documentation of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system shall ai system shall be system shall be drawn shall be drawn up be drawn up before drawn up before that up before that system before that system is that system is placed system is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service and into service and shall service and shall be and shall be kept shall be kept up-to be kept up-to date.
the technical technical documentation documentation shall shall be be drawn drawn up up in in such such a a way way to to demonstrate demonstrate that that the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system complies complies with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in this this chapter chapter and and provide provide national national competent competent authorities authorities and and notified notified bodies bodies with with all all the the necessary necessary information information in in a a clear clear and and comprehensive comprehensive form form to to assess assess the the compliance compliance of of the the ai ai system system with with those those requirements.
the technical documentation technical documentation shall documentation shall be shall be drawn be drawn up drawn up in up in such in such a such a way a way to way to demonstrate to demonstrate that demonstrate that the that the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system complies system complies with complies with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in this in this chapter this chapter and chapter and provide and provide national provide national competent national competent authorities competent authorities and authorities and notified and notified bodies notified bodies with bodies with all with all the all the necessary the necessary information necessary information in information in a in a clear a clear and clear and comprehensive and comprehensive form comprehensive form to form to assess to assess the assess the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the ai the ai system ai system with system with those with those requirements.
the technical documentation shall technical documentation shall be documentation shall be drawn shall be drawn up be drawn up in drawn up in such up in such a in such a way such a way to a way to demonstrate way to demonstrate that to demonstrate that the demonstrate that the high-risk that the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system complies ai system complies with system complies with the complies with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in this out in this chapter in this chapter and this chapter and provide chapter and provide national and provide national competent provide national competent authorities national competent authorities and competent authorities and notified authorities and notified bodies and notified bodies with notified bodies with all bodies with all the with all the necessary all the necessary information the necessary information in necessary information in a information in a clear in a clear and a clear and comprehensive clear and comprehensive form and comprehensive form to comprehensive form to assess form to assess the to assess the compliance assess the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the ai of the ai system the ai system with ai system with those system with those requirements.
it shall shall contain contain at at a a minimum minimum the the elements elements set set out out in in annex annex iv iv or or in in the the case case of of smes smes including including start-ups start-ups any any equivalent equivalent documentation documentation meeting meeting the the same same objectives objectives unless unless deemed deemed inappropriate inappropriate by by the the competent competent authority.
it shall contain shall contain at contain at a at a minimum a minimum the minimum the elements the elements set elements set out set out in out in annex in annex iv annex iv or iv or in or in the in the case the case of case of smes of smes including smes including start-ups including start-ups any start-ups any equivalent any equivalent documentation equivalent documentation meeting documentation meeting the meeting the same the same objectives same objectives unless objectives unless deemed unless deemed inappropriate deemed inappropriate by inappropriate by the by the competent the competent authority.
it shall contain at shall contain at a contain at a minimum at a minimum the a minimum the elements minimum the elements set the elements set out elements set out in set out in annex out in annex iv in annex iv or annex iv or in iv or in the or in the case in the case of the case of smes case of smes including of smes including start-ups smes including start-ups any including start-ups any equivalent start-ups any equivalent documentation any equivalent documentation meeting equivalent documentation meeting the documentation meeting the same meeting the same objectives the same objectives unless same objectives unless deemed objectives unless deemed inappropriate unless deemed inappropriate by deemed inappropriate by the inappropriate by the competent by the competent authority.
where a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system related related to to a a product product to to which which the the legal legal acts acts listed listed in in annex annex ii ii section section a a apply apply is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service one one single single technical technical documentation documentation shall shall be be drawn drawn up up containing containing all all the the information information set set out out in in annex annex iv iv as as well well as as the the information information required required under under those those legal legal acts.
where a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system related system related to related to a to a product a product to product to which to which the which the legal the legal acts legal acts listed acts listed in listed in annex in annex ii annex ii section ii section a section a apply a apply is apply is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service one service one single one single technical single technical documentation technical documentation shall documentation shall be shall be drawn be drawn up drawn up containing up containing all containing all the all the information the information set information set out set out in out in annex in annex iv annex iv as iv as well as well as well as the as the information the information required information required under required under those under those legal those legal acts.
where a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system related ai system related to system related to a related to a product to a product to a product to which product to which the to which the legal which the legal acts the legal acts listed legal acts listed in acts listed in annex listed in annex ii in annex ii section annex ii section a ii section a apply section a apply is a apply is placed apply is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service one into service one single service one single technical one single technical documentation single technical documentation shall technical documentation shall be documentation shall be drawn shall be drawn up be drawn up containing drawn up containing all up containing all the containing all the information all the information set the information set out information set out in set out in annex out in annex iv in annex iv as annex iv as well iv as well as as well as the well as the information as the information required the information required under information required under those required under those legal under those legal acts.
the commission commission is is empowered empowered to to adopt adopt delegated delegated acts acts in in accordance accordance with with article article to to amend amend annex annex iv iv where where necessary necessary to to ensure ensure that that in in the the light light of of technical technical progress progress the the technical technical documentation documentation provides provides all all the the necessary necessary information information to to assess assess the the compliance compliance of of the the system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in this this chapter.
the commission is commission is empowered is empowered to empowered to adopt to adopt delegated adopt delegated acts delegated acts in acts in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article to article to amend to amend annex amend annex iv annex iv where iv where necessary where necessary to necessary to ensure to ensure that ensure that in that in the in the light the light of light of technical of technical progress technical progress the progress the technical the technical documentation technical documentation provides documentation provides all provides all the all the necessary the necessary information necessary information to information to assess to assess the assess the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the system the system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in this in this chapter.
the commission is empowered commission is empowered to is empowered to adopt empowered to adopt delegated to adopt delegated acts adopt delegated acts in delegated acts in accordance acts in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article to with article to amend article to amend annex to amend annex iv amend annex iv where annex iv where necessary iv where necessary to where necessary to ensure necessary to ensure that to ensure that in ensure that in the that in the light in the light of the light of technical light of technical progress of technical progress the technical progress the technical progress the technical documentation the technical documentation provides technical documentation provides all documentation provides all the provides all the necessary all the necessary information the necessary information to necessary information to assess information to assess the to assess the compliance assess the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the system of the system with the system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in this out in this chapter.
tree..b rbek rbek en en article article record-keeping record-keeping .
tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article record-keeping article record-keeping .
tree..b rbek en article rbek en article record-keeping en article record-keeping .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall technically technically allow allow for for the the automatic automatic recording recording of of events events ‘logs’ ‘logs’ over over the the duration duration of of the the life life cycle cycle of of the the system.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall technically shall technically allow technically allow for allow for the for the automatic the automatic recording automatic recording of recording of events of events ‘logs’ events ‘logs’ over ‘logs’ over the over the duration the duration of duration of the of the life the life cycle life cycle of cycle of the of the system.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall technically systems shall technically allow shall technically allow for technically allow for the allow for the automatic for the automatic recording the automatic recording of automatic recording of events recording of events ‘logs’ of events ‘logs’ over events ‘logs’ over the ‘logs’ over the duration over the duration of the duration of the duration of the life of the life cycle the life cycle of life cycle of the cycle of the system.
in order order to to ensure ensure a a level level of of traceability traceability of of the the ai ai system’s system’s functioning functioning that that is is appropriate appropriate to to the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the system system logging logging capabilities capabilities shall shall enable enable the the recording recording of of events events relevant relevant for for i i identification identification of of situations situations that that may may result result in in the the ai ai system system presenting presenting a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article or or in in a a substantial substantial modification modification ii ii facilitation facilitation of of the the post-market post-market monitoring monitoring referred referred to to in in article article and and iii iii monitoring monitoring of of the the operation operation of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems referred referred to to in in article article .
in order to order to ensure to ensure a ensure a level a level of level of traceability of traceability of traceability of the of the ai the ai system’s ai system’s functioning system’s functioning that functioning that is that is appropriate is appropriate to appropriate to the to the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the system the system logging system logging capabilities logging capabilities shall capabilities shall enable shall enable the enable the recording the recording of recording of events of events relevant events relevant for relevant for i for i identification i identification of identification of situations of situations that situations that may that may result may result in result in the in the ai the ai system ai system presenting system presenting a presenting a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article or article or in or in a in a substantial a substantial modification substantial modification ii modification ii facilitation ii facilitation of facilitation of the of the post-market the post-market monitoring post-market monitoring referred monitoring referred to referred to in to in article in article and article and iii and iii monitoring iii monitoring of monitoring of the of the operation the operation of operation of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in article in article .
in order to ensure order to ensure a to ensure a level ensure a level of a level of traceability level of traceability of of traceability of the traceability of the ai of the ai system’s the ai system’s functioning ai system’s functioning that system’s functioning that is functioning that is appropriate that is appropriate to is appropriate to the appropriate to the intended to the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the system of the system logging the system logging capabilities system logging capabilities shall logging capabilities shall enable capabilities shall enable the shall enable the recording enable the recording of the recording of events recording of events relevant of events relevant for events relevant for i relevant for i identification for i identification of i identification of situations identification of situations that of situations that may situations that may result that may result in may result in the result in the ai in the ai system the ai system presenting ai system presenting a system presenting a risk presenting a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article or of article or in article or in a or in a substantial in a substantial modification a substantial modification ii substantial modification ii facilitation modification ii facilitation of ii facilitation of the facilitation of the post-market of the post-market monitoring the post-market monitoring referred post-market monitoring referred to monitoring referred to in referred to in article to in article and in article and iii article and iii monitoring and iii monitoring of iii monitoring of the monitoring of the operation of the operation of the operation of high-risk operation of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems referred ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in article to in article .
for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point a a of of annex annex iii iii the the logging logging capabilities capabilities shall shall provide provide at at a a minimum minimum a a recording recording of of the the period period of of each each use use of of the the system system start start date date and and time time and and end end date date and and time time of of each each use use b b the the reference reference database database against against which which input input data data has has been been checked checked by by the the system system c c the the input input data data for for which which the the search search has has led led to to a a match match d d the the identification identification of of the the natural natural persons persons involved involved in in the the verification verification of of the the results results as as referred referred to to in in article article .
for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point a point a of a of annex of annex iii annex iii the iii the logging the logging capabilities logging capabilities shall capabilities shall provide shall provide at provide at a at a minimum a minimum a minimum a recording a recording of recording of the of the period the period of period of each of each use each use of use of the of the system the system start system start date start date and date and time and time and time and end and end date end date and date and time and time of time of each of each use each use b use b the b the reference the reference database reference database against database against which against which input which input data input data has data has been has been checked been checked by checked by the by the system the system c system c the c the input the input data input data for data for which for which the which the search the search has search has led has led to led to a to a match a match d match d the d the identification the identification of identification of the of the natural the natural persons natural persons involved persons involved in involved in the in the verification the verification of verification of the of the results the results as results as referred as referred to referred to in to in article in article .
for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems referred ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point a paragraph point a of point a of annex a of annex iii of annex iii the annex iii the logging iii the logging capabilities the logging capabilities shall logging capabilities shall provide capabilities shall provide at shall provide at a provide at a minimum at a minimum a a minimum a recording minimum a recording of a recording of the recording of the period of the period of the period of each period of each use of each use of each use of the use of the system of the system start the system start date system start date and start date and time date and time and and time and end time and end date and end date and end date and time date and time of and time of each time of each use of each use b each use b the use b the reference b the reference database the reference database against reference database against which database against which input against which input data which input data has input data has been data has been checked has been checked by been checked by the checked by the system by the system c the system c the system c the input c the input data the input data for input data for which data for which the for which the search which the search has the search has led search has led to has led to a led to a match to a match d a match d the match d the identification d the identification of the identification of the identification of the natural of the natural persons the natural persons involved natural persons involved in persons involved in the involved in the verification in the verification of the verification of the verification of the results of the results as the results as referred results as referred to as referred to in referred to in article to in article .
tree..b rbek rbek en en article article transparency transparency and and provision provision of of information information to to users users .
tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article transparency article transparency and transparency and provision and provision of provision of information of information to information to users to users .
tree..b rbek en article rbek en article transparency en article transparency and article transparency and provision transparency and provision of and provision of information provision of information to of information to users information to users .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be designed designed and and developed developed in in such such a a way way to to ensure ensure that that their their operation operation is is sufficiently sufficiently transparent transparent with with a a view view to to achieving achieving compliance compliance with with the the relevant relevant obligations obligations of of the the user user and and of of the the provider provider set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title and and enabling enabling users users to to understand understand and and use use the the system system appropriately.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be designed be designed and designed and developed and developed in developed in such in such a such a way a way to way to ensure to ensure that ensure that their that their operation their operation is operation is sufficiently is sufficiently transparent sufficiently transparent with transparent with a with a view a view to view to achieving to achieving compliance achieving compliance with compliance with the with the relevant the relevant obligations relevant obligations of obligations of the of the user the user and user and of and of the of the provider the provider set provider set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title and title and enabling and enabling users enabling users to users to understand to understand and understand and use and use the use the system the system appropriately.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be designed shall be designed and be designed and developed designed and developed in and developed in such developed in such a in such a way such a way to a way to ensure way to ensure that to ensure that their ensure that their operation that their operation is their operation is sufficiently operation is sufficiently transparent is sufficiently transparent with sufficiently transparent with a transparent with a view with a view to a view to achieving view to achieving compliance to achieving compliance with achieving compliance with the compliance with the relevant with the relevant obligations the relevant obligations of relevant obligations of the obligations of the user of the user and the user and of user and of the and of the provider of the provider set the provider set out provider set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title and this title and enabling title and enabling users and enabling users to enabling users to understand users to understand and to understand and use understand and use the and use the system use the system appropriately.
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be accompanied accompanied by by instructions instructions for for use use in in an an appropriate appropriate digital digital format format or or otherwise otherwise that that include include concise concise complete complete correct correct and and clear clear information information that that is is relevant relevant accessible accessible and and comprehensible comprehensible to to users.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be accompanied be accompanied by accompanied by instructions by instructions for instructions for use for use in use in an in an appropriate an appropriate digital appropriate digital format digital format or format or otherwise or otherwise that otherwise that include that include concise include concise complete concise complete correct complete correct and correct and clear and clear information clear information that information that is that is relevant is relevant accessible relevant accessible and accessible and comprehensible and comprehensible to comprehensible to users.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be accompanied shall be accompanied by be accompanied by instructions accompanied by instructions for by instructions for use instructions for use in for use in an use in an appropriate in an appropriate digital an appropriate digital format appropriate digital format or digital format or otherwise format or otherwise that or otherwise that include otherwise that include concise that include concise complete include concise complete correct concise complete correct and complete correct and clear correct and clear information and clear information that clear information that is information that is relevant that is relevant accessible is relevant accessible and relevant accessible and comprehensible accessible and comprehensible to and comprehensible to users.
the information information referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall specify specify a a the the identity identity and and the the contact contact details details of of the the provider provider and and where where applicable applicable of of its its authorised authorised representative representative b b the the characteristics characteristics capabilities capabilities and and limitations limitations of of performance performance of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system including including i i its its intended intended purpose purpose inclusive inclusive of of the the specific specific geographical geographical behavioural behavioural or or functional functional setting setting within within which which the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is intended intended to to be be used used ii ii the the level level of of accuracy accuracy including including its its metrics metrics robustness robustness and and cybersecurity cybersecurity referred referred to to in in article article against against which which the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system has has been been tested tested and and validated validated and and which which can can be be expected expected and and any any known known and and foreseeable foreseeable circumstances circumstances that that may may have have an an impact impact on on that that expected expected level level of of accuracy accuracy robustness robustness and and cybersecurity cybersecurity iii iii any any known known or or foreseeable foreseeable circumstance circumstance related related to to the the use use of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system in in accordance accordance with with its its intended intended purpose purpose which which may may lead lead to to risks risks to to the the health health and and safety safety or or fundamental fundamental rights rights referred referred to to in in aricle aricle tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en iv iv when when appropriate appropriate its its behaviour behaviour regarding regarding specific specific persons persons or or groups groups of of persons persons on on which which the the system system is is intended intended to to be be used used v v when when appropriate appropriate specifications specifications for for the the input input data data or or any any other other relevant relevant information information in in terms terms of of the the training training validation validation and and testing testing data data sets sets used used taking taking into into account account the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the ai ai system system vi vi when when appropriate appropriate description description of of the the expected expected output output of of the the system.
the information referred information referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall specify shall specify a specify a the a the identity the identity and identity and the and the contact the contact details contact details of details of the of the provider the provider and provider and where and where applicable where applicable of applicable of its of its authorised its authorised representative authorised representative b representative b the b the characteristics the characteristics capabilities characteristics capabilities and capabilities and limitations and limitations of limitations of performance of performance of performance of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system including system including i including i its i its intended its intended purpose intended purpose inclusive purpose inclusive of inclusive of the of the specific the specific geographical specific geographical behavioural geographical behavioural or behavioural or functional or functional setting functional setting within setting within which within which the which the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used be used ii used ii the ii the level the level of level of accuracy of accuracy including accuracy including its including its metrics its metrics robustness metrics robustness and robustness and cybersecurity and cybersecurity referred cybersecurity referred to referred to in to in article in article against article against which against which the which the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system has system has been has been tested been tested and tested and validated and validated and validated and which and which can which can be can be expected be expected and expected and any and any known any known and known and foreseeable and foreseeable circumstances foreseeable circumstances that circumstances that may that may have may have an have an impact an impact on impact on that on that expected that expected level expected level of level of accuracy of accuracy robustness accuracy robustness and robustness and cybersecurity and cybersecurity iii cybersecurity iii any iii any known any known or known or foreseeable or foreseeable circumstance foreseeable circumstance related circumstance related to related to the to the use the use of use of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system in system in accordance in accordance with accordance with its with its intended its intended purpose intended purpose which purpose which may which may lead may lead to lead to risks to risks to risks to the to the health the health and health and safety and safety or safety or fundamental or fundamental rights fundamental rights referred rights referred to referred to in to in aricle in aricle tree..b aricle tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en iv en iv when iv when appropriate when appropriate its appropriate its behaviour its behaviour regarding behaviour regarding specific regarding specific persons specific persons or persons or groups or groups of groups of persons of persons on persons on which on which the which the system the system is system is intended is intended to intended to be to be used be used v used v when v when appropriate when appropriate specifications appropriate specifications for specifications for the for the input the input data input data or data or any or any other any other relevant other relevant information relevant information in information in terms in terms of terms of the of the training the training validation training validation and validation and testing and testing data testing data sets data sets used sets used taking used taking into taking into account into account the account the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the ai the ai system ai system vi system vi when vi when appropriate when appropriate description appropriate description of description of the of the expected the expected output expected output of output of the of the system.
the information referred to information referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall specify paragraph shall specify a shall specify a the specify a the identity a the identity and the identity and the identity and the contact and the contact details the contact details of contact details of the details of the provider of the provider and the provider and where provider and where applicable and where applicable of where applicable of its applicable of its authorised of its authorised representative its authorised representative b authorised representative b the representative b the characteristics b the characteristics capabilities the characteristics capabilities and characteristics capabilities and limitations capabilities and limitations of and limitations of performance limitations of performance of of performance of the performance of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system including ai system including i system including i its including i its intended i its intended purpose its intended purpose inclusive intended purpose inclusive of purpose inclusive of the inclusive of the specific of the specific geographical the specific geographical behavioural specific geographical behavioural or geographical behavioural or functional behavioural or functional setting or functional setting within functional setting within which setting within which the within which the high-risk which the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used to be used ii be used ii the used ii the level ii the level of the level of accuracy level of accuracy including of accuracy including its accuracy including its metrics including its metrics robustness its metrics robustness and metrics robustness and cybersecurity robustness and cybersecurity referred and cybersecurity referred to cybersecurity referred to in referred to in article to in article against in article against which article against which the against which the high-risk which the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system has ai system has been system has been tested has been tested and been tested and validated tested and validated and and validated and which validated and which can and which can be which can be expected can be expected and be expected and any expected and any known and any known and any known and foreseeable known and foreseeable circumstances and foreseeable circumstances that foreseeable circumstances that may circumstances that may have that may have an may have an impact have an impact on an impact on that impact on that expected on that expected level that expected level of expected level of accuracy level of accuracy robustness of accuracy robustness and accuracy robustness and cybersecurity robustness and cybersecurity iii and cybersecurity iii any cybersecurity iii any known iii any known or any known or foreseeable known or foreseeable circumstance or foreseeable circumstance related foreseeable circumstance related to circumstance related to the related to the use to the use of the use of the use of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system in ai system in accordance system in accordance with in accordance with its accordance with its intended with its intended purpose its intended purpose which intended purpose which may purpose which may lead which may lead to may lead to risks lead to risks to to risks to the risks to the health to the health and the health and safety health and safety or and safety or fundamental safety or fundamental rights or fundamental rights referred fundamental rights referred to rights referred to in referred to in aricle to in aricle tree..b in aricle tree..b rbek aricle tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en iv rbek en iv when en iv when appropriate iv when appropriate its when appropriate its behaviour appropriate its behaviour regarding its behaviour regarding specific behaviour regarding specific persons regarding specific persons or specific persons or groups persons or groups of or groups of persons groups of persons on of persons on which persons on which the on which the system which the system is the system is intended system is intended to is intended to be intended to be used to be used v be used v when used v when appropriate v when appropriate specifications when appropriate specifications for appropriate specifications for the specifications for the input for the input data the input data or input data or any data or any other or any other relevant any other relevant information other relevant information in relevant information in terms information in terms of in terms of the terms of the training of the training validation the training validation and training validation and testing validation and testing data and testing data sets testing data sets used data sets used taking sets used taking into used taking into account taking into account the into account the intended account the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the ai of the ai system the ai system vi ai system vi when system vi when appropriate vi when appropriate description when appropriate description of appropriate description of the description of the expected of the expected output the expected output of expected output of the output of the system.
c the the changes changes to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and its its performance performance which which have have been been pre-determined pre-determined by by the the provider provider at at the the moment moment of of the the initial initial conformity conformity assessment assessment if if any any d d the the human human oversight oversight measures measures referred referred to to in in article article including including the the technical technical measures measures put put in in place place to to facilitate facilitate the the interpretation interpretation of of the the outputs outputs of of ai ai systems systems by by the the users users e e the the computational computational and and hardware hardware resources resources needed needed the the expected expected lifetime lifetime of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and any any necessary necessary maintenance maintenance and and care care measures measures including including their their frequency frequency to to ensure ensure the the proper proper functioning functioning of of that that ai ai system system including including as as regards regards software software updates updates f f a a description description of of the the mechanism mechanism included included within within the the ai ai system system that that allows allows users users to to properly properly collect collect store store and and interpret interpret the the logs logs where where relevant.
c the changes the changes to changes to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and its and its performance its performance which performance which have which have been have been pre-determined been pre-determined by pre-determined by the by the provider the provider at provider at the at the moment the moment of moment of the of the initial the initial conformity initial conformity assessment conformity assessment if assessment if any if any d any d the d the human the human oversight human oversight measures oversight measures referred measures referred to referred to in to in article in article including article including the including the technical the technical measures technical measures put measures put in put in place in place to place to facilitate to facilitate the facilitate the interpretation the interpretation of interpretation of the of the outputs the outputs of outputs of ai of ai systems ai systems by systems by the by the users the users e users e the e the computational the computational and computational and hardware and hardware resources hardware resources needed resources needed the needed the expected the expected lifetime expected lifetime of lifetime of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and any and any necessary any necessary maintenance necessary maintenance and maintenance and care and care measures care measures including measures including their including their frequency their frequency to frequency to ensure to ensure the ensure the proper the proper functioning proper functioning of functioning of that of that ai that ai system ai system including system including as including as regards as regards software regards software updates software updates f updates f a f a description a description of description of the of the mechanism the mechanism included mechanism included within included within the within the ai the ai system ai system that system that allows that allows users allows users to users to properly to properly collect properly collect store collect store and store and interpret and interpret the interpret the logs the logs where logs where relevant.
c the changes to the changes to the changes to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and its system and its performance and its performance which its performance which have performance which have been which have been pre-determined have been pre-determined by been pre-determined by the pre-determined by the provider by the provider at the provider at the provider at the moment at the moment of the moment of the moment of the initial of the initial conformity the initial conformity assessment initial conformity assessment if conformity assessment if any assessment if any d if any d the any d the human d the human oversight the human oversight measures human oversight measures referred oversight measures referred to measures referred to in referred to in article to in article including in article including the article including the technical including the technical measures the technical measures put technical measures put in measures put in place put in place to in place to facilitate place to facilitate the to facilitate the interpretation facilitate the interpretation of the interpretation of the interpretation of the outputs of the outputs of the outputs of ai outputs of ai systems of ai systems by ai systems by the systems by the users by the users e the users e the users e the computational e the computational and the computational and hardware computational and hardware resources and hardware resources needed hardware resources needed the resources needed the expected needed the expected lifetime the expected lifetime of expected lifetime of the lifetime of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and any system and any necessary and any necessary maintenance any necessary maintenance and necessary maintenance and care maintenance and care measures and care measures including care measures including their measures including their frequency including their frequency to their frequency to ensure frequency to ensure the to ensure the proper ensure the proper functioning the proper functioning of proper functioning of that functioning of that ai of that ai system that ai system including ai system including as system including as regards including as regards software as regards software updates regards software updates f software updates f a updates f a description f a description of a description of the description of the mechanism of the mechanism included the mechanism included within mechanism included within the included within the ai within the ai system the ai system that ai system that allows system that allows users that allows users to allows users to properly users to properly collect to properly collect store properly collect store and collect store and interpret store and interpret the and interpret the logs interpret the logs where the logs where relevant.
article human human oversight oversight .
article human oversight human oversight .
article human oversight .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be designed designed and and developed developed in in such such a a way way including including with with appropriate appropriate human-machine human-machine interface interface tools tools that that they they can can be be effectively effectively overseen overseen by by natural natural persons persons during during the the period period in in which which the the ai ai system system is is in in use.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be designed be designed and designed and developed and developed in developed in such in such a such a way a way including way including with including with appropriate with appropriate human-machine appropriate human-machine interface human-machine interface tools interface tools that tools that they that they can they can be can be effectively be effectively overseen effectively overseen by overseen by natural by natural persons natural persons during persons during the during the period the period in period in which in which the which the ai the ai system ai system is system is in is in use.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be designed shall be designed and be designed and developed designed and developed in and developed in such developed in such a in such a way such a way including a way including with way including with appropriate including with appropriate human-machine with appropriate human-machine interface appropriate human-machine interface tools human-machine interface tools that interface tools that they tools that they can that they can be they can be effectively can be effectively overseen be effectively overseen by effectively overseen by natural overseen by natural persons by natural persons during natural persons during the persons during the period during the period in the period in which period in which the in which the ai which the ai system the ai system is ai system is in system is in use.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
human oversight oversight shall shall aim aim at at preventing preventing or or minimising minimising the the risks risks to to health health safety safety or or fundamental fundamental rights rights that that may may emerge emerge when when a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is used used in in accordance accordance with with its its intended intended purpose purpose or or under under conditions conditions of of reasonably reasonably foreseeable foreseeable misuse misuse in in particular particular when when such such risks risks persist persist notwithstanding notwithstanding the the application application of of other other requirements requirements set set out out in in this this chapter.
human oversight shall oversight shall aim shall aim at aim at preventing at preventing or preventing or minimising or minimising the minimising the risks the risks to risks to health to health safety health safety or safety or fundamental or fundamental rights fundamental rights that rights that may that may emerge may emerge when emerge when a when a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is used is used in used in accordance in accordance with accordance with its with its intended its intended purpose intended purpose or purpose or under or under conditions under conditions of conditions of reasonably of reasonably foreseeable reasonably foreseeable misuse foreseeable misuse in misuse in particular in particular when particular when such when such risks such risks persist risks persist notwithstanding persist notwithstanding the notwithstanding the application the application of application of other of other requirements other requirements set requirements set out set out in out in this in this chapter.
human oversight shall aim oversight shall aim at shall aim at preventing aim at preventing or at preventing or minimising preventing or minimising the or minimising the risks minimising the risks to the risks to health risks to health safety to health safety or health safety or fundamental safety or fundamental rights or fundamental rights that fundamental rights that may rights that may emerge that may emerge when may emerge when a emerge when a high-risk when a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is used system is used in is used in accordance used in accordance with in accordance with its accordance with its intended with its intended purpose its intended purpose or intended purpose or under purpose or under conditions or under conditions of under conditions of reasonably conditions of reasonably foreseeable of reasonably foreseeable misuse reasonably foreseeable misuse in foreseeable misuse in particular misuse in particular when in particular when such particular when such risks when such risks persist such risks persist notwithstanding risks persist notwithstanding the persist notwithstanding the application notwithstanding the application of the application of other application of other requirements of other requirements set other requirements set out requirements set out in set out in this out in this chapter.
human oversight oversight shall shall be be ensured ensured through through either either one one or or all all of of the the following following types types of of measures measures a a measures measures identified identified and and built built when when technically technically feasible feasible into into the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system by by the the provider provider before before it it is is placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service b b measures measures identified identified by by the the provider provider before before placing placing the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system on on the the market market or or putting putting it it into into service service and and that that are are appropriate appropriate to to be be implemented implemented by by the the user.
human oversight shall oversight shall be shall be ensured be ensured through ensured through either through either one either one or one or all or all of all of the of the following the following types following types of types of measures of measures a measures a measures a measures identified measures identified and identified and built and built when built when technically when technically feasible technically feasible into feasible into the into the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system by system by the by the provider the provider before provider before it before it is it is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service b service b measures b measures identified measures identified by identified by the by the provider the provider before provider before placing before placing the placing the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system on system on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting it putting it into it into service into service and service and that and that are that are appropriate are appropriate to appropriate to be to be implemented be implemented by implemented by the by the user.
human oversight shall be oversight shall be ensured shall be ensured through be ensured through either ensured through either one through either one or either one or all one or all of or all of the all of the following of the following types the following types of following types of measures types of measures a of measures a measures measures a measures identified a measures identified and measures identified and built identified and built when and built when technically built when technically feasible when technically feasible into technically feasible into the feasible into the high-risk into the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system by ai system by the system by the provider by the provider before the provider before it provider before it is before it is placed it is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service b into service b measures service b measures identified b measures identified by measures identified by the identified by the provider by the provider before the provider before placing provider before placing the before placing the high-risk placing the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system on ai system on the system on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting it or putting it into putting it into service it into service and into service and that service and that are and that are appropriate that are appropriate to are appropriate to be appropriate to be implemented to be implemented by be implemented by the implemented by the user.
for the the purpose purpose of of implementing implementing paragraphs paragraphs to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system shall shall be be provided provided to to the the user user in in such such a a way way that that natural natural persons persons to to whom whom human human oversight oversight is is assigned assigned are are enabled enabled as as appropriate appropriate and and proportionate proportionate to to the the circumstances circumstances a a to to understand understand the the capacities capacities and and limitations limitations of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and be be able able to to duly duly monitor monitor its its operation operation b b to to remain remain aware aware of of the the possible possible tendency tendency of of automatically automatically relying relying or or over-relying over-relying on on the the output output produced produced by by a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system ‘automation ‘automation bias’ bias’ c c to to correctly correctly interpret interpret the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system’s system’s output output taking taking into into account account for for example example the the interpretation interpretation tools tools and and methods methods available available d d to to decide decide in in any any particular particular situation situation not not to to use use the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or otherwise otherwise disregard disregard override override or or reverse reverse the the output output of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system e e to to intervene intervene on on the the operation operation of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or interrupt interrupt the the system system through through a a “stop” “stop” button button or or a a similar similar procedure.
for the purpose the purpose of purpose of implementing of implementing paragraphs implementing paragraphs to paragraphs to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system shall system shall be shall be provided be provided to provided to the to the user the user in user in such in such a such a way a way that way that natural that natural persons natural persons to persons to whom to whom human whom human oversight human oversight is oversight is assigned is assigned are assigned are enabled are enabled as enabled as appropriate as appropriate and appropriate and proportionate and proportionate to proportionate to the to the circumstances the circumstances a circumstances a to a to understand to understand the understand the capacities the capacities and capacities and limitations and limitations of limitations of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and be and be able be able to able to duly to duly monitor duly monitor its monitor its operation its operation b operation b to b to remain to remain aware remain aware of aware of the of the possible the possible tendency possible tendency of tendency of automatically of automatically relying automatically relying or relying or over-relying or over-relying on over-relying on the on the output the output produced output produced by produced by a by a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system ‘automation system ‘automation bias’ ‘automation bias’ c bias’ c to c to correctly to correctly interpret correctly interpret the interpret the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system’s ai system’s output system’s output taking output taking into taking into account into account for account for example for example the example the interpretation the interpretation tools interpretation tools and tools and methods and methods available methods available d available d to d to decide to decide in decide in any in any particular any particular situation particular situation not situation not to not to use to use the use the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or otherwise or otherwise disregard otherwise disregard override disregard override or override or reverse or reverse the reverse the output the output of output of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system e system e to e to intervene to intervene on intervene on the on the operation the operation of operation of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or interrupt or interrupt the interrupt the system the system through system through a through a “stop” a “stop” button “stop” button or button or a or a similar a similar procedure.
for the purpose of the purpose of implementing purpose of implementing paragraphs of implementing paragraphs to implementing paragraphs to the paragraphs to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system shall ai system shall be system shall be provided shall be provided to be provided to the provided to the user to the user in the user in such user in such a in such a way such a way that a way that natural way that natural persons that natural persons to natural persons to whom persons to whom human to whom human oversight whom human oversight is human oversight is assigned oversight is assigned are is assigned are enabled assigned are enabled as are enabled as appropriate enabled as appropriate and as appropriate and proportionate appropriate and proportionate to and proportionate to the proportionate to the circumstances to the circumstances a the circumstances a to circumstances a to understand a to understand the to understand the capacities understand the capacities and the capacities and limitations capacities and limitations of and limitations of the limitations of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and be system and be able and be able to be able to duly able to duly monitor to duly monitor its duly monitor its operation monitor its operation b its operation b to operation b to remain b to remain aware to remain aware of remain aware of the aware of the possible of the possible tendency the possible tendency of possible tendency of automatically tendency of automatically relying of automatically relying or automatically relying or over-relying relying or over-relying on or over-relying on the over-relying on the output on the output produced the output produced by output produced by a produced by a high-risk by a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system ‘automation ai system ‘automation bias’ system ‘automation bias’ c ‘automation bias’ c to bias’ c to correctly c to correctly interpret to correctly interpret the correctly interpret the high-risk interpret the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system’s high-risk ai system’s output ai system’s output taking system’s output taking into output taking into account taking into account for into account for example account for example the for example the interpretation example the interpretation tools the interpretation tools and interpretation tools and methods tools and methods available and methods available d methods available d to available d to decide d to decide in to decide in any decide in any particular in any particular situation any particular situation not particular situation not to situation not to use not to use the to use the high-risk use the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or otherwise system or otherwise disregard or otherwise disregard override otherwise disregard override or disregard override or reverse override or reverse the or reverse the output reverse the output of the output of the output of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system e ai system e to system e to intervene e to intervene on to intervene on the intervene on the operation on the operation of the operation of the operation of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or interrupt system or interrupt the or interrupt the system interrupt the system through the system through a system through a “stop” through a “stop” button a “stop” button or “stop” button or a button or a similar or a similar procedure.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems referred referred to to in in point point a a of of annex annex iii iii the the measures measures referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall be be such such as as to to ensure ensure that that in in addition addition no no action action or or decision decision is is taken taken by by the the user user on on the the basis basis of of the the identification identification resulting resulting from from the the system system unless unless this this has has been been separately separately verified verified and and confirmed confirmed by by at at least least two two natural natural persons.
for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems referred systems referred to referred to in to in point in point a point a of a of annex of annex iii annex iii the iii the measures the measures referred measures referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall be shall be such be such as such as to as to ensure to ensure that ensure that in that in addition in addition no addition no action no action or action or decision or decision is decision is taken is taken by taken by the by the user the user on user on the on the basis the basis of basis of the of the identification the identification resulting identification resulting from resulting from the from the system the system unless system unless this unless this has this has been has been separately been separately verified separately verified and verified and confirmed and confirmed by confirmed by at by at least at least two least two natural two natural persons.
for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems referred ai systems referred to systems referred to in referred to in point to in point a in point a of point a of annex a of annex iii of annex iii the annex iii the measures iii the measures referred the measures referred to measures referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall be paragraph shall be such shall be such as be such as to such as to ensure as to ensure that to ensure that in ensure that in addition that in addition no in addition no action addition no action or no action or decision action or decision is or decision is taken decision is taken by is taken by the taken by the user by the user on the user on the user on the basis on the basis of the basis of the basis of the identification of the identification resulting the identification resulting from identification resulting from the resulting from the system from the system unless the system unless this system unless this has unless this has been this has been separately has been separately verified been separately verified and separately verified and confirmed verified and confirmed by and confirmed by at confirmed by at least by at least two at least two natural least two natural persons.
the requirement requirement for for a a separate separate verification verification by by at at least least two two natural natural persons persons shall shall not not apply apply to to high high risk risk ai ai systems systems used used for for the the purpose purpose of of law law enforcement enforcement migration migration border border control control or or asylum asylum in in cases cases where where union union or or national national law law considers considers the the application application of of this this requirement requirement to to be be disproportionate.
the requirement for requirement for a for a separate a separate verification separate verification by verification by at by at least at least two least two natural two natural persons natural persons shall persons shall not shall not apply not apply to apply to high to high risk high risk ai risk ai systems ai systems used systems used for used for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of law of law enforcement law enforcement migration enforcement migration border migration border control border control or control or asylum or asylum in asylum in cases in cases where cases where union where union or union or national or national law national law considers law considers the considers the application the application of application of this of this requirement this requirement to requirement to be to be disproportionate.
the requirement for a requirement for a separate for a separate verification a separate verification by separate verification by at verification by at least by at least two at least two natural least two natural persons two natural persons shall natural persons shall not persons shall not apply shall not apply to not apply to high apply to high risk to high risk ai high risk ai systems risk ai systems used ai systems used for systems used for the used for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of law purpose of law enforcement of law enforcement migration law enforcement migration border enforcement migration border control migration border control or border control or asylum control or asylum in or asylum in cases asylum in cases where in cases where union cases where union or where union or national union or national law or national law considers national law considers the law considers the application considers the application of the application of this application of this requirement of this requirement to this requirement to be requirement to be disproportionate.
article accuracy accuracy robustness robustness and and cybersecurity cybersecurity .
article accuracy robustness accuracy robustness and robustness and cybersecurity and cybersecurity .
article accuracy robustness and accuracy robustness and cybersecurity robustness and cybersecurity .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be designed designed and and developed developed in in such such a a way way that that they they achieve achieve in in the the light light of of their their intended intended purpose purpose an an appropriate appropriate level level of of accuracy accuracy robustness robustness and and cybersecurity cybersecurity and and perform perform consistently consistently in in those those respects respects throughout throughout their their lifecycle.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be designed be designed and designed and developed and developed in developed in such in such a such a way a way that way that they that they achieve they achieve in achieve in the in the light the light of light of their of their intended their intended purpose intended purpose an purpose an appropriate an appropriate level appropriate level of level of accuracy of accuracy robustness accuracy robustness and robustness and cybersecurity and cybersecurity and cybersecurity and perform and perform consistently perform consistently in consistently in those in those respects those respects throughout respects throughout their throughout their lifecycle.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be designed shall be designed and be designed and developed designed and developed in and developed in such developed in such a in such a way such a way that a way that they way that they achieve that they achieve in they achieve in the achieve in the light in the light of the light of their light of their intended of their intended purpose their intended purpose an intended purpose an appropriate purpose an appropriate level an appropriate level of appropriate level of accuracy level of accuracy robustness of accuracy robustness and accuracy robustness and cybersecurity robustness and cybersecurity and and cybersecurity and perform cybersecurity and perform consistently and perform consistently in perform consistently in those consistently in those respects in those respects throughout those respects throughout their respects throughout their lifecycle.
the levels levels of of accuracy accuracy and and the the relevant relevant accuracy accuracy metrics metrics of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be declared declared in in the the accompanying accompanying instructions instructions of of use.
the levels of levels of accuracy of accuracy and accuracy and the and the relevant the relevant accuracy relevant accuracy metrics accuracy metrics of metrics of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be declared be declared in declared in the in the accompanying the accompanying instructions accompanying instructions of instructions of use.
the levels of accuracy levels of accuracy and of accuracy and the accuracy and the relevant and the relevant accuracy the relevant accuracy metrics relevant accuracy metrics of accuracy metrics of high-risk metrics of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be declared shall be declared in be declared in the declared in the accompanying in the accompanying instructions the accompanying instructions of accompanying instructions of use.
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be resilient resilient as as regards regards errors errors faults faults or or inconsistencies inconsistencies that that may may occur occur within within the the system system or or the the environment environment in in which which the the system system operates operates in in particular particular due due to to their their interaction interaction with with natural natural persons persons or or other other systems.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be resilient be resilient as resilient as regards as regards errors regards errors faults errors faults or faults or inconsistencies or inconsistencies that inconsistencies that may that may occur may occur within occur within the within the system the system or system or the or the environment the environment in environment in which in which the which the system the system operates system operates in operates in particular in particular due particular due to due to their to their interaction their interaction with interaction with natural with natural persons natural persons or persons or other or other systems.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be resilient shall be resilient as be resilient as regards resilient as regards errors as regards errors faults regards errors faults or errors faults or inconsistencies faults or inconsistencies that or inconsistencies that may inconsistencies that may occur that may occur within may occur within the occur within the system within the system or the system or the system or the environment or the environment in the environment in which environment in which the in which the system which the system operates the system operates in system operates in particular operates in particular due in particular due to particular due to their due to their interaction to their interaction with their interaction with natural interaction with natural persons with natural persons or natural persons or other persons or other systems.
the robustness robustness of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems may may be be achieved achieved through through technical technical redundancy redundancy solutions solutions which which may may include include backup backup or or fail-safe fail-safe plans.
the robustness of robustness of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems may systems may be may be achieved be achieved through achieved through technical through technical redundancy technical redundancy solutions redundancy solutions which solutions which may which may include may include backup include backup or backup or fail-safe or fail-safe plans.
the robustness of high-risk robustness of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems may ai systems may be systems may be achieved may be achieved through be achieved through technical achieved through technical redundancy through technical redundancy solutions technical redundancy solutions which redundancy solutions which may solutions which may include which may include backup may include backup or include backup or fail-safe backup or fail-safe plans.
high-risk ai ai systems systems that that continue continue to to learn learn after after being being placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service shall shall be be developed developed in in such such a a way way to to eliminate eliminate or or reduce reduce as as far far as as possible possible the the risk risk of of possibly possibly biased biased outputs outputs influencing influencing input input for for future future operations operations ‘feedback ‘feedback loops’ loops’ are are duly duly addressed addressed with with appropriate appropriate mitigation mitigation measures.
high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that continue that continue to continue to learn to learn after learn after being after being placed being placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service shall service shall be shall be developed be developed in developed in such in such a such a way a way to way to eliminate to eliminate or eliminate or reduce or reduce as reduce as far as far as far as possible as possible the possible the risk the risk of risk of possibly of possibly biased possibly biased outputs biased outputs influencing outputs influencing input influencing input for input for future for future operations future operations ‘feedback operations ‘feedback loops’ ‘feedback loops’ are loops’ are duly are duly addressed duly addressed with addressed with appropriate with appropriate mitigation appropriate mitigation measures.
high-risk ai systems that ai systems that continue systems that continue to that continue to learn continue to learn after to learn after being learn after being placed after being placed on being placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service shall into service shall be service shall be developed shall be developed in be developed in such developed in such a in such a way such a way to a way to eliminate way to eliminate or to eliminate or reduce eliminate or reduce as or reduce as far reduce as far as as far as possible far as possible the as possible the risk possible the risk of the risk of possibly risk of possibly biased of possibly biased outputs possibly biased outputs influencing biased outputs influencing input outputs influencing input for influencing input for future input for future operations for future operations ‘feedback future operations ‘feedback loops’ operations ‘feedback loops’ are ‘feedback loops’ are duly loops’ are duly addressed are duly addressed with duly addressed with appropriate addressed with appropriate mitigation with appropriate mitigation measures.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be resilient resilient as as regards regards attempts attempts by by unauthorised unauthorised third third parties parties to to alter alter their their use use or or performance performance by by exploiting exploiting the the system system vulnerabilities.
high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be resilient be resilient as resilient as regards as regards attempts regards attempts by attempts by unauthorised by unauthorised third unauthorised third parties third parties to parties to alter to alter their alter their use their use or use or performance or performance by performance by exploiting by exploiting the exploiting the system the system vulnerabilities.
high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be resilient shall be resilient as be resilient as regards resilient as regards attempts as regards attempts by regards attempts by unauthorised attempts by unauthorised third by unauthorised third parties unauthorised third parties to third parties to alter parties to alter their to alter their use alter their use or their use or performance use or performance by or performance by exploiting performance by exploiting the by exploiting the system exploiting the system vulnerabilities.
the technical technical solutions solutions aimed aimed at at ensuring ensuring the the cybersecurity cybersecurity of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall be be appropriate appropriate to to the the relevant relevant circumstances circumstances and and the the risks.
the technical solutions technical solutions aimed solutions aimed at aimed at ensuring at ensuring the ensuring the cybersecurity the cybersecurity of cybersecurity of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall be shall be appropriate be appropriate to appropriate to the to the relevant the relevant circumstances relevant circumstances and circumstances and the and the risks.
the technical solutions aimed technical solutions aimed at solutions aimed at ensuring aimed at ensuring the at ensuring the cybersecurity ensuring the cybersecurity of the cybersecurity of high-risk cybersecurity of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall be systems shall be appropriate shall be appropriate to be appropriate to the appropriate to the relevant to the relevant circumstances the relevant circumstances and relevant circumstances and the circumstances and the risks.
the technical technical solutions solutions to to address address ai ai specific specific vulnerabilities vulnerabilities shall shall include include where where appropriate appropriate measures measures to to prevent prevent and and control control for for attacks attacks trying trying to to manipulate manipulate the the training training dataset dataset ‘data ‘data poisoning’ poisoning’ inputs inputs designed designed to to cause cause the the model model to to make make a a mistake mistake ‘adversarial ‘adversarial examples’ examples’ or or model model flaws.
the technical solutions technical solutions to solutions to address to address ai address ai specific ai specific vulnerabilities specific vulnerabilities shall vulnerabilities shall include shall include where include where appropriate where appropriate measures appropriate measures to measures to prevent to prevent and prevent and control and control for control for attacks for attacks trying attacks trying to trying to manipulate to manipulate the manipulate the training the training dataset training dataset ‘data dataset ‘data poisoning’ ‘data poisoning’ inputs poisoning’ inputs designed inputs designed to designed to cause to cause the cause the model the model to model to make to make a make a mistake a mistake ‘adversarial mistake ‘adversarial examples’ ‘adversarial examples’ or examples’ or model or model flaws.
the technical solutions to technical solutions to address solutions to address ai to address ai specific address ai specific vulnerabilities ai specific vulnerabilities shall specific vulnerabilities shall include vulnerabilities shall include where shall include where appropriate include where appropriate measures where appropriate measures to appropriate measures to prevent measures to prevent and to prevent and control prevent and control for and control for attacks control for attacks trying for attacks trying to attacks trying to manipulate trying to manipulate the to manipulate the training manipulate the training dataset the training dataset ‘data training dataset ‘data poisoning’ dataset ‘data poisoning’ inputs ‘data poisoning’ inputs designed poisoning’ inputs designed to inputs designed to cause designed to cause the to cause the model cause the model to the model to make model to make a to make a mistake make a mistake ‘adversarial a mistake ‘adversarial examples’ mistake ‘adversarial examples’ or ‘adversarial examples’ or model examples’ or model flaws.
chapter obligations obligations of of providers providers and and users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems and and other other parties parties article article obligations obligations of of providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall a a ensure ensure that that their their high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems are are compliant compliant with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title aa aa indicate indicate their their name name registered registered trade trade name name or or registered registered trade trade mark mark the the address address at at which which they they can can be be contacted contacted on on the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or where where that that is is not not possible possible on on its its packaging packaging or or its its accompanying accompanying documentation documentation as as applicable applicable b b have have a a quality quality management management system system in in place place which which complies complies with with article article c c keep keep the the documentation documentation referred referred to to in in article article tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en d d when when under under their their control control keep keep the the logs logs automatically automatically generated generated by by their their high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems as as referred referred to to in in article article e e ensure ensure that that the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system undergoes undergoes the the relevant relevant conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure as as referred referred to to in in article article prior prior to to its its placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service f f comply comply with with the the registration registration obligations obligations referred referred to to in in article article g g take take the the necessary necessary corrective corrective actions actions as as referred referred to to in in article article if if the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is not not in in conformity conformity with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title h h inform inform the the relevant relevant national national competent competent authority authority of of the the member member states states in in which which they they made made the the ai ai system system available available or or put put it it into into service service and and where where applicable applicable the the notified notified body body of of the the non-compliance non-compliance and and of of any any corrective corrective actions actions taken taken i i to to affix affix the the ce ce marking marking to to their their high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems to to indicate indicate the the conformity conformity with with this this regulation regulation in in accordance accordance with with article article j j upon upon request request of of a a national national competent competent authority authority demonstrate demonstrate the the conformity conformity of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title.
chapter obligations of obligations of providers of providers and providers and users and users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems and systems and other and other parties other parties article parties article obligations article obligations of obligations of providers of providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems providers systems providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall a shall a ensure a ensure that ensure that their that their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems are systems are compliant are compliant with compliant with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title aa title aa indicate aa indicate their indicate their name their name registered name registered trade registered trade name trade name or name or registered or registered trade registered trade mark trade mark the mark the address the address at address at which at which they which they can they can be can be contacted be contacted on contacted on the on the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or where or where that where that is that is not is not possible not possible on possible on its on its packaging its packaging or packaging or its or its accompanying its accompanying documentation accompanying documentation as documentation as applicable as applicable b applicable b have b have a have a quality a quality management quality management system management system in system in place in place which place which complies which complies with complies with article with article c article c keep c keep the keep the documentation the documentation referred documentation referred to referred to in to in article in article tree..b article tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en d en d when d when under when under their under their control their control keep control keep the keep the logs the logs automatically logs automatically generated automatically generated by generated by their by their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems as systems as referred as referred to referred to in to in article in article e article e ensure e ensure that ensure that the that the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system undergoes system undergoes the undergoes the relevant the relevant conformity relevant conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure as procedure as referred as referred to referred to in to in article in article prior article prior to prior to its to its placing its placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service f service f comply f comply with comply with the with the registration the registration obligations registration obligations referred obligations referred to referred to in to in article in article g article g take g take the take the necessary the necessary corrective necessary corrective actions corrective actions as actions as referred as referred to referred to in to in article in article if article if the if the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is not is not in not in conformity in conformity with conformity with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title h title h inform h inform the inform the relevant the relevant national relevant national competent national competent authority competent authority of authority of the of the member the member states member states in states in which in which they which they made they made the made the ai the ai system ai system available system available or available or put or put it put it into it into service into service and service and where and where applicable where applicable the applicable the notified the notified body notified body of body of the of the non-compliance the non-compliance and non-compliance and of and of any of any corrective any corrective actions corrective actions taken actions taken i taken i to i to affix to affix the affix the ce the ce marking ce marking to marking to their to their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems to systems to indicate to indicate the indicate the conformity the conformity with conformity with this with this regulation this regulation in regulation in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article j article j upon j upon request upon request of request of a of a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority demonstrate authority demonstrate the demonstrate the conformity the conformity of conformity of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title.
chapter obligations of providers obligations of providers and of providers and users providers and users of and users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems and ai systems and other systems and other parties and other parties article other parties article obligations parties article obligations of article obligations of providers obligations of providers of of providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems providers ai systems providers of systems providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall a systems shall a ensure shall a ensure that a ensure that their ensure that their high-risk that their high-risk ai their high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems are ai systems are compliant systems are compliant with are compliant with the compliant with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title aa this title aa indicate title aa indicate their aa indicate their name indicate their name registered their name registered trade name registered trade name registered trade name or trade name or registered name or registered trade or registered trade mark registered trade mark the trade mark the address mark the address at the address at which address at which they at which they can which they can be they can be contacted can be contacted on be contacted on the contacted on the high-risk on the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or where system or where that or where that is where that is not that is not possible is not possible on not possible on its possible on its packaging on its packaging or its packaging or its packaging or its accompanying or its accompanying documentation its accompanying documentation as accompanying documentation as applicable documentation as applicable b as applicable b have applicable b have a b have a quality have a quality management a quality management system quality management system in management system in place system in place which in place which complies place which complies with which complies with article complies with article c with article c keep article c keep the c keep the documentation keep the documentation referred the documentation referred to documentation referred to in referred to in article to in article tree..b in article tree..b rbek article tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en d rbek en d when en d when under d when under their when under their control under their control keep their control keep the control keep the logs keep the logs automatically the logs automatically generated logs automatically generated by automatically generated by their generated by their high-risk by their high-risk ai their high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems as ai systems as referred systems as referred to as referred to in referred to in article to in article e in article e ensure article e ensure that e ensure that the ensure that the high-risk that the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system undergoes ai system undergoes the system undergoes the relevant undergoes the relevant conformity the relevant conformity assessment relevant conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure as assessment procedure as referred procedure as referred to as referred to in referred to in article to in article prior in article prior to article prior to its prior to its placing to its placing on its placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service f into service f comply service f comply with f comply with the comply with the registration with the registration obligations the registration obligations referred registration obligations referred to obligations referred to in referred to in article to in article g in article g take article g take the g take the necessary take the necessary corrective the necessary corrective actions necessary corrective actions as corrective actions as referred actions as referred to as referred to in referred to in article to in article if in article if the article if the high-risk if the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is not system is not in is not in conformity not in conformity with in conformity with the conformity with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title h this title h inform title h inform the h inform the relevant inform the relevant national the relevant national competent relevant national competent authority national competent authority of competent authority of the authority of the member of the member states the member states in member states in which states in which they in which they made which they made the they made the ai made the ai system the ai system available ai system available or system available or put available or put it or put it into put it into service it into service and into service and where service and where applicable and where applicable the where applicable the notified applicable the notified body the notified body of notified body of the body of the non-compliance of the non-compliance and the non-compliance and of non-compliance and of any and of any corrective of any corrective actions any corrective actions taken corrective actions taken i actions taken i to taken i to affix i to affix the to affix the ce affix the ce marking the ce marking to ce marking to their marking to their high-risk to their high-risk ai their high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems to ai systems to indicate systems to indicate the to indicate the conformity indicate the conformity with the conformity with this conformity with this regulation with this regulation in this regulation in accordance regulation in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article j with article j upon article j upon request j upon request of upon request of a request of a national of a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority demonstrate competent authority demonstrate the authority demonstrate the conformity demonstrate the conformity of the conformity of the conformity of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title.
article quality quality management management system system .
article quality management quality management system management system .
article quality management system quality management system .
providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall put put a a quality quality management management system system in in place place that that ensures ensures compliance compliance with with this this regulation.
providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall put shall put a put a quality a quality management quality management system management system in system in place in place that place that ensures that ensures compliance ensures compliance with compliance with this with this regulation.
providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall put systems shall put a shall put a quality put a quality management a quality management system quality management system in management system in place system in place that in place that ensures place that ensures compliance that ensures compliance with ensures compliance with this compliance with this regulation.
that system system shall shall be be documented documented in in a a systematic systematic and and orderly orderly manner manner in in the the form form of of written written policies policies procedures procedures and and instructions instructions and and shall shall include include at at least least the the following following aspects aspects a a a a strategy strategy for for regulatory regulatory compliance compliance including including compliance compliance with with conformity conformity assessment assessment procedures procedures and and procedures procedures for for the the management management of of modifications modifications to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en b b techniques techniques procedures procedures and and systematic systematic actions actions to to be be used used for for the the design design design design control control and and design design verification verification of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system c c techniques techniques procedures procedures and and systematic systematic actions actions to to be be used used for for the the development development quality quality control control and and quality quality assurance assurance of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system d d examination examination test test and and validation validation procedures procedures to to be be carried carried out out before before during during and and after after the the development development of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and the the frequency frequency with with which which they they have have to to be be carried carried out out e e technical technical specifications specifications including including standards standards to to be be applied applied and and where where the the relevant relevant harmonised harmonised standards standards are are not not applied applied in in full full the the means means to to be be used used to to ensure ensure that that the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system complies complies with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title f f systems systems and and procedures procedures for for data data management management including including data data collection collection data data analysis analysis data data labelling labelling data data storage storage data data filtration filtration data data mining mining data data aggregation aggregation data data retention retention and and any any other other operation operation regarding regarding the the data data that that is is performed performed before before and and for for the the purposes purposes of of the the placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service service of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems g g the the risk risk management management system system referred referred to to in in article article h h the the setting-up setting-up implementation implementation and and maintenance maintenance of of a a post-market post-market monitoring monitoring system system in in accordance accordance with with article article i i procedures procedures related related to to the the reporting reporting of of a a serious serious incident incident in in accordance accordance with with article article j j the the handling handling of of communication communication with with national national competent competent authorities authorities competent competent authorities authorities including including sectoral sectoral ones ones providing providing or or supporting supporting the the access access to to data data notified notified bodies bodies other other operators operators customers customers or or other other interested interested parties parties k k systems systems and and procedures procedures for for record record keeping keeping of of all all relevant relevant documentation documentation and and information information tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en l l resource resource management management including including security security of of supply supply related related measures measures m m an an accountability accountability framework framework setting setting out out the the responsibilities responsibilities of of the the management management and and other other staff staff with with regard regard to to all all aspects aspects listed listed in in this this paragraph.
that system shall system shall be shall be documented be documented in documented in a in a systematic a systematic and systematic and orderly and orderly manner orderly manner in manner in the in the form the form of form of written of written policies written policies procedures policies procedures and procedures and instructions and instructions and instructions and shall and shall include shall include at include at least at least the least the following the following aspects following aspects a aspects a a a a strategy a strategy for strategy for regulatory for regulatory compliance regulatory compliance including compliance including compliance including compliance with compliance with conformity with conformity assessment conformity assessment procedures assessment procedures and procedures and procedures and procedures for procedures for the for the management the management of management of modifications of modifications to modifications to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system tree..b system tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en b en b techniques b techniques procedures techniques procedures and procedures and systematic and systematic actions systematic actions to actions to be to be used be used for used for the for the design the design design design design control design control and control and design and design verification design verification of verification of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system c system c techniques c techniques procedures techniques procedures and procedures and systematic and systematic actions systematic actions to actions to be to be used be used for used for the for the development the development quality development quality control quality control and control and quality and quality assurance quality assurance of assurance of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system d system d examination d examination test examination test and test and validation and validation procedures validation procedures to procedures to be to be carried be carried out carried out before out before during before during and during and after and after the after the development the development of development of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and the and the frequency the frequency with frequency with which with which they which they have they have to have to be to be carried be carried out carried out e out e technical e technical specifications technical specifications including specifications including standards including standards to standards to be to be applied be applied and applied and where and where the where the relevant the relevant harmonised relevant harmonised standards harmonised standards are standards are not are not applied not applied in applied in full in full the full the means the means to means to be to be used be used to used to ensure to ensure that ensure that the that the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system complies system complies with complies with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title f title f systems f systems and systems and procedures and procedures for procedures for data for data management data management including management including data including data collection data collection data collection data analysis data analysis data analysis data labelling data labelling data labelling data storage data storage data storage data filtration data filtration data filtration data mining data mining data mining data aggregation data aggregation data aggregation data retention data retention and retention and any and any other any other operation other operation regarding operation regarding the regarding the data the data that data that is that is performed is performed before performed before and before and for and for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of the of the placing the placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service into service of service of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems g systems g the g the risk the risk management risk management system management system referred system referred to referred to in to in article in article h article h the h the setting-up the setting-up implementation setting-up implementation and implementation and maintenance and maintenance of maintenance of a of a post-market a post-market monitoring post-market monitoring system monitoring system in system in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article i article i procedures i procedures related procedures related to related to the to the reporting the reporting of reporting of a of a serious a serious incident serious incident in incident in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article j article j the j the handling the handling of handling of communication of communication with communication with national with national competent national competent authorities competent authorities competent authorities competent authorities competent authorities including authorities including sectoral including sectoral ones sectoral ones providing ones providing or providing or supporting or supporting the supporting the access the access to access to data to data notified data notified bodies notified bodies other bodies other operators other operators customers operators customers or customers or other or other interested other interested parties interested parties k parties k systems k systems and systems and procedures and procedures for procedures for record for record keeping record keeping of keeping of all of all relevant all relevant documentation relevant documentation and documentation and information and information tree..b information tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en l en l resource l resource management resource management including management including security including security of security of supply of supply related supply related measures related measures m measures m an m an accountability an accountability framework accountability framework setting framework setting out setting out the out the responsibilities the responsibilities of responsibilities of the of the management the management and management and other and other staff other staff with staff with regard with regard to regard to all to all aspects all aspects listed aspects listed in listed in this in this paragraph.
that system shall be system shall be documented shall be documented in be documented in a documented in a systematic in a systematic and a systematic and orderly systematic and orderly manner and orderly manner in orderly manner in the manner in the form in the form of the form of written form of written policies of written policies procedures written policies procedures and policies procedures and instructions procedures and instructions and and instructions and shall instructions and shall include and shall include at shall include at least include at least the at least the following least the following aspects the following aspects a following aspects a a aspects a a strategy a a strategy for a strategy for regulatory strategy for regulatory compliance for regulatory compliance including regulatory compliance including compliance compliance including compliance with including compliance with conformity compliance with conformity assessment with conformity assessment procedures conformity assessment procedures and assessment procedures and procedures procedures and procedures for and procedures for the procedures for the management for the management of the management of modifications management of modifications to of modifications to the modifications to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system tree..b ai system tree..b rbek system tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en b rbek en b techniques en b techniques procedures b techniques procedures and techniques procedures and systematic procedures and systematic actions and systematic actions to systematic actions to be actions to be used to be used for be used for the used for the design for the design design the design design control design design control and design control and design control and design verification and design verification of design verification of the verification of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system c ai system c techniques system c techniques procedures c techniques procedures and techniques procedures and systematic procedures and systematic actions and systematic actions to systematic actions to be actions to be used to be used for be used for the used for the development for the development quality the development quality control development quality control and quality control and quality control and quality assurance and quality assurance of quality assurance of the assurance of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system d ai system d examination system d examination test d examination test and examination test and validation test and validation procedures and validation procedures to validation procedures to be procedures to be carried to be carried out be carried out before carried out before during out before during and before during and after during and after the and after the development after the development of the development of the development of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and the system and the frequency and the frequency with the frequency with which frequency with which they with which they have which they have to they have to be have to be carried to be carried out be carried out e carried out e technical out e technical specifications e technical specifications including technical specifications including standards specifications including standards to including standards to be standards to be applied to be applied and be applied and where applied and where the and where the relevant where the relevant harmonised the relevant harmonised standards relevant harmonised standards are harmonised standards are not standards are not applied are not applied in not applied in full applied in full the in full the means full the means to the means to be means to be used to be used to be used to ensure used to ensure that to ensure that the ensure that the high-risk that the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system complies ai system complies with system complies with the complies with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title f this title f systems title f systems and f systems and procedures systems and procedures for and procedures for data procedures for data management for data management including data management including data management including data collection including data collection data data collection data analysis collection data analysis data data analysis data labelling analysis data labelling data data labelling data storage labelling data storage data data storage data filtration storage data filtration data data filtration data mining filtration data mining data data mining data aggregation mining data aggregation data data aggregation data retention aggregation data retention and data retention and any retention and any other and any other operation any other operation regarding other operation regarding the operation regarding the data regarding the data that the data that is data that is performed that is performed before is performed before and performed before and for before and for the and for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the placing of the placing on the placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service putting into service of into service of high-risk service of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems g ai systems g the systems g the risk g the risk management the risk management system risk management system referred management system referred to system referred to in referred to in article to in article h in article h the article h the setting-up h the setting-up implementation the setting-up implementation and setting-up implementation and maintenance implementation and maintenance of and maintenance of a maintenance of a post-market of a post-market monitoring a post-market monitoring system post-market monitoring system in monitoring system in accordance system in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article i with article i procedures article i procedures related i procedures related to procedures related to the related to the reporting to the reporting of the reporting of a reporting of a serious of a serious incident a serious incident in serious incident in accordance incident in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article j with article j the article j the handling j the handling of the handling of communication handling of communication with of communication with national communication with national competent with national competent authorities national competent authorities competent competent authorities competent authorities authorities competent authorities including competent authorities including sectoral authorities including sectoral ones including sectoral ones providing sectoral ones providing or ones providing or supporting providing or supporting the or supporting the access supporting the access to the access to data access to data notified to data notified bodies data notified bodies other notified bodies other operators bodies other operators customers other operators customers or operators customers or other customers or other interested or other interested parties other interested parties k interested parties k systems parties k systems and k systems and procedures systems and procedures for and procedures for record procedures for record keeping for record keeping of record keeping of all keeping of all relevant of all relevant documentation all relevant documentation and relevant documentation and information documentation and information tree..b and information tree..b rbek information tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en l rbek en l resource en l resource management l resource management including resource management including security management including security of including security of supply security of supply related of supply related measures supply related measures m related measures m an measures m an accountability m an accountability framework an accountability framework setting accountability framework setting out framework setting out the setting out the responsibilities out the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the management of the management and the management and other management and other staff and other staff with other staff with regard staff with regard to with regard to all regard to all aspects to all aspects listed all aspects listed in aspects listed in this listed in this paragraph.
the implementation implementation of of aspects aspects referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall be be proportionate proportionate to to the the size size of of the the provider’s provider’s organisation.
the implementation of implementation of aspects of aspects referred aspects referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall be shall be proportionate be proportionate to proportionate to the to the size the size of size of the of the provider’s the provider’s organisation.
the implementation of aspects implementation of aspects referred of aspects referred to aspects referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall be paragraph shall be proportionate shall be proportionate to be proportionate to the proportionate to the size to the size of the size of the size of the provider’s of the provider’s organisation.
a. for for providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are subject subject to to obligations obligations regarding regarding quality quality management management systems systems under under relevant relevant sectorial sectorial union union law law the the aspects aspects described described in in paragraph paragraph may may be be part part of of the the quality quality management management systems systems pursuant pursuant to to that that law.
a. for providers for providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are subject are subject to subject to obligations to obligations regarding obligations regarding quality regarding quality management quality management systems management systems under systems under relevant under relevant sectorial relevant sectorial union sectorial union law union law the law the aspects the aspects described aspects described in described in paragraph in paragraph may paragraph may be may be part be part of part of the of the quality the quality management quality management systems management systems pursuant systems pursuant to pursuant to that to that law.
a. for providers of for providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are subject that are subject to are subject to obligations subject to obligations regarding to obligations regarding quality obligations regarding quality management regarding quality management systems quality management systems under management systems under relevant systems under relevant sectorial under relevant sectorial union relevant sectorial union law sectorial union law the union law the aspects law the aspects described the aspects described in aspects described in paragraph described in paragraph may in paragraph may be paragraph may be part may be part of be part of the part of the quality of the quality management the quality management systems quality management systems pursuant management systems pursuant to systems pursuant to that pursuant to that law.
for providers providers that that are are financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding their their internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes under under union union financial financial services services legislation legislation the the obligation obligation to to put put in in place place a a quality quality management management system system with with the the exception exception of of paragraph paragraph points points g g h h and and i i shall shall be be deemed deemed to to be be fulfilled fulfilled by by complying complying with with the the rules rules on on internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes pursuant pursuant to to the the relevant relevant union union financial financial services services legislation.
for providers that providers that are that are financial are financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding their regarding their internal their internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes under processes under union under union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation the legislation the obligation the obligation to obligation to put to put in put in place in place a place a quality a quality management quality management system management system with system with the with the exception the exception of exception of paragraph of paragraph points paragraph points g points g h g h and h and i and i shall i shall be shall be deemed be deemed to deemed to be to be fulfilled be fulfilled by fulfilled by complying by complying with complying with the with the rules the rules on rules on internal on internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes pursuant processes pursuant to pursuant to the to the relevant the relevant union relevant union financial union financial services financial services legislation.
for providers that are providers that are financial that are financial institutions are financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding their requirements regarding their internal regarding their internal governance their internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes under or processes under union processes under union financial under union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation the services legislation the obligation legislation the obligation to the obligation to put obligation to put in to put in place put in place a in place a quality place a quality management a quality management system quality management system with management system with the system with the exception with the exception of the exception of paragraph exception of paragraph points of paragraph points g paragraph points g h points g h and g h and i h and i shall and i shall be i shall be deemed shall be deemed to be deemed to be deemed to be fulfilled to be fulfilled by be fulfilled by complying fulfilled by complying with by complying with the complying with the rules with the rules on the rules on internal rules on internal governance on internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes pursuant or processes pursuant to processes pursuant to the pursuant to the relevant to the relevant union the relevant union financial relevant union financial services union financial services legislation.
in that that context context any any harmonised harmonised standards standards referred referred to to in in article article of of this this regulation regulation shall shall be be taken taken into into account.
in that context that context any context any harmonised any harmonised standards harmonised standards referred standards referred to referred to in to in article in article of article of this of this regulation this regulation shall regulation shall be shall be taken be taken into taken into account.
in that context any that context any harmonised context any harmonised standards any harmonised standards referred harmonised standards referred to standards referred to in referred to in article to in article of in article of this article of this regulation of this regulation shall this regulation shall be regulation shall be taken shall be taken into be taken into account.
article documentation documentation keeping keeping .
article documentation keeping documentation keeping .
article documentation keeping .
the provider provider shall shall for for a a period period ending ending years years after after the the ai ai system system has has been been placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service keep keep at at the the disposal disposal of of the the national national competent competent authorities authorities a a the the technical technical documentation documentation referred referred to to in in article article b b the the documentation documentation concerning concerning the the quality quality management management system system referred referred to to in in article article c c the the documentation documentation concerning concerning the the changes changes approved approved by by notified notified bodies bodies where where applicable applicable tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en d d the the decisions decisions and and other other documents documents issued issued by by the the notified notified bodies bodies where where applicable applicable e e the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity referred referred to to in in article article .
the provider shall provider shall for shall for a for a period a period ending period ending years ending years after years after the after the ai the ai system ai system has system has been has been placed been placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service keep service keep at keep at the at the disposal the disposal of disposal of the of the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities a authorities a the a the technical the technical documentation technical documentation referred documentation referred to referred to in to in article in article b article b the b the documentation the documentation concerning documentation concerning the concerning the quality the quality management quality management system management system referred system referred to referred to in to in article in article c article c the c the documentation the documentation concerning documentation concerning the concerning the changes the changes approved changes approved by approved by notified by notified bodies notified bodies where bodies where applicable where applicable tree..b applicable tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en d en d the d the decisions the decisions and decisions and other and other documents other documents issued documents issued by issued by the by the notified the notified bodies notified bodies where bodies where applicable where applicable e applicable e the e the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity referred conformity referred to referred to in to in article in article .
the provider shall for provider shall for a shall for a period for a period ending a period ending years period ending years after ending years after the years after the ai after the ai system the ai system has ai system has been system has been placed has been placed on been placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service keep into service keep at service keep at the keep at the disposal at the disposal of the disposal of the disposal of the national of the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities a competent authorities a the authorities a the technical a the technical documentation the technical documentation referred technical documentation referred to documentation referred to in referred to in article to in article b in article b the article b the documentation b the documentation concerning the documentation concerning the documentation concerning the quality concerning the quality management the quality management system quality management system referred management system referred to system referred to in referred to in article to in article c in article c the article c the documentation c the documentation concerning the documentation concerning the documentation concerning the changes concerning the changes approved the changes approved by changes approved by notified approved by notified bodies by notified bodies where notified bodies where applicable bodies where applicable tree..b where applicable tree..b rbek applicable tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en d rbek en d the en d the decisions d the decisions and the decisions and other decisions and other documents and other documents issued other documents issued by documents issued by the issued by the notified by the notified bodies the notified bodies where notified bodies where applicable bodies where applicable e where applicable e the applicable e the eu e the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity referred of conformity referred to conformity referred to in referred to in article to in article .
a. each each member member state state shall shall determine determine conditions conditions under under which which the the documentation documentation referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph remains remains at at the the disposal disposal of of the the national national competent competent authorities authorities for for the the period period indicated indicated in in that that paragraph paragraph for for the the cases cases when when a a provider provider or or its its authorised authorised representative representative established established on on its its territory territory goes goes bankrupt bankrupt or or ceases ceases its its activity activity prior prior to to the the end end of of that that period.
a. each member each member state member state shall state shall determine shall determine conditions determine conditions under conditions under which under which the which the documentation the documentation referred documentation referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph remains paragraph remains at remains at the at the disposal the disposal of disposal of the of the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities for authorities for the for the period the period indicated period indicated in indicated in that in that paragraph that paragraph for paragraph for the for the cases the cases when cases when a when a provider a provider or provider or its or its authorised its authorised representative authorised representative established representative established on established on its on its territory its territory goes territory goes bankrupt goes bankrupt or bankrupt or ceases or ceases its ceases its activity its activity prior activity prior to prior to the to the end the end of end of that of that period.
a. each member state each member state shall member state shall determine state shall determine conditions shall determine conditions under determine conditions under which conditions under which the under which the documentation which the documentation referred the documentation referred to documentation referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph remains in paragraph remains at paragraph remains at the remains at the disposal at the disposal of the disposal of the disposal of the national of the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities for competent authorities for the authorities for the period for the period indicated the period indicated in period indicated in that indicated in that paragraph in that paragraph for that paragraph for the paragraph for the cases for the cases when the cases when a cases when a provider when a provider or a provider or its provider or its authorised or its authorised representative its authorised representative established authorised representative established on representative established on its established on its territory on its territory goes its territory goes bankrupt territory goes bankrupt or goes bankrupt or ceases bankrupt or ceases its or ceases its activity ceases its activity prior its activity prior to activity prior to the prior to the end to the end of the end of that end of that period.
providers that that are are financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding their their internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes under under union union financial financial services services legislation legislation shall shall maintain maintain the the technical technical documentation documentation as as part part of of the the documentation documentation kept kept under under the the relevant relevant union union financial financial services services legislation.
providers that are that are financial are financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding their regarding their internal their internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes under processes under union under union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation shall legislation shall maintain shall maintain the maintain the technical the technical documentation technical documentation as documentation as part as part of part of the of the documentation the documentation kept documentation kept under kept under the under the relevant the relevant union relevant union financial union financial services financial services legislation.
providers that are financial that are financial institutions are financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding their requirements regarding their internal regarding their internal governance their internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes under or processes under union processes under union financial under union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation shall services legislation shall maintain legislation shall maintain the shall maintain the technical maintain the technical documentation the technical documentation as technical documentation as part documentation as part of as part of the part of the documentation of the documentation kept the documentation kept under documentation kept under the kept under the relevant under the relevant union the relevant union financial relevant union financial services union financial services legislation.
article conformity conformity assessment assessment .
article conformity assessment conformity assessment .
article conformity assessment .
providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall ensure ensure that that their their systems systems undergo undergo the the relevant relevant conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure in in accordance accordance with with article article prior prior to to their their placing placing on on the the market market or or putting putting into into service.
providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that their that their systems their systems undergo systems undergo the undergo the relevant the relevant conformity relevant conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure in procedure in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article prior article prior to prior to their to their placing their placing on placing on the on the market the market or market or putting or putting into putting into service.
providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall ensure systems shall ensure that shall ensure that their ensure that their systems that their systems undergo their systems undergo the systems undergo the relevant undergo the relevant conformity the relevant conformity assessment relevant conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure in assessment procedure in accordance procedure in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article prior with article prior to article prior to their prior to their placing to their placing on their placing on the placing on the market on the market or the market or putting market or putting into or putting into service.
where the the compliance compliance of of the the ai ai systems systems with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title has has been been demonstrated demonstrated following following that that conformity conformity assessment assessment the the providers providers shall shall draw draw up up an an eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity in in accordance accordance with with article article and and affix affix the the ce ce marking marking of of conformity conformity in in accordance accordance with with article article .
where the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the ai the ai systems ai systems with systems with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title has title has been has been demonstrated been demonstrated following demonstrated following that following that conformity that conformity assessment conformity assessment the assessment the providers the providers shall providers shall draw shall draw up draw up an up an eu an eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity in conformity in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article and article and affix and affix the affix the ce the ce marking ce marking of marking of conformity of conformity in conformity in accordance in accordance with accordance with article with article .
where the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the ai of the ai systems the ai systems with ai systems with the systems with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title has this title has been title has been demonstrated has been demonstrated following been demonstrated following that demonstrated following that conformity following that conformity assessment that conformity assessment the conformity assessment the providers assessment the providers shall the providers shall draw providers shall draw up shall draw up an draw up an eu up an eu declaration an eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity in of conformity in accordance conformity in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article and with article and affix article and affix the and affix the ce affix the ce marking the ce marking of ce marking of conformity marking of conformity in of conformity in accordance conformity in accordance with in accordance with article accordance with article .
deleted tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en article article automatically automatically generated generated logs logs .
deleted tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article automatically article automatically generated automatically generated logs generated logs .
deleted tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en article rbek en article automatically en article automatically generated article automatically generated logs automatically generated logs .
providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall keep keep the the logs logs referred referred to to in in article article automatically automatically generated generated by by their their high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems to to the the extent extent such such logs logs are are under under their their control control by by virtue virtue of of a a contractual contractual arrangement arrangement with with the the user user or or otherwise otherwise by by law.
providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall keep shall keep the keep the logs the logs referred logs referred to referred to in to in article in article automatically article automatically generated automatically generated by generated by their by their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems to systems to the to the extent the extent such extent such logs such logs are logs are under are under their under their control their control by control by virtue by virtue of virtue of a of a contractual a contractual arrangement contractual arrangement with arrangement with the with the user the user or user or otherwise or otherwise by otherwise by law.
providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall keep systems shall keep the shall keep the logs keep the logs referred the logs referred to logs referred to in referred to in article to in article automatically in article automatically generated article automatically generated by automatically generated by their generated by their high-risk by their high-risk ai their high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems to ai systems to the systems to the extent to the extent such the extent such logs extent such logs are such logs are under logs are under their are under their control under their control by their control by virtue control by virtue of by virtue of a virtue of a contractual of a contractual arrangement a contractual arrangement with contractual arrangement with the arrangement with the user with the user or the user or otherwise user or otherwise by or otherwise by law.
they shall shall keep keep them them for for a a period period of of at at least least six six months months unless unless provided provided otherwise otherwise in in applicable applicable union union or or national national law law in in particular particular in in union union law law on on the the protection protection of of personal personal data.
they shall keep shall keep them keep them for them for a for a period a period of period of at of at least at least six least six months six months unless months unless provided unless provided otherwise provided otherwise in otherwise in applicable in applicable union applicable union or union or national or national law national law in law in particular in particular in particular in union in union law union law on law on the on the protection the protection of protection of personal of personal data.
they shall keep them shall keep them for keep them for a them for a period for a period of a period of at period of at least of at least six at least six months least six months unless six months unless provided months unless provided otherwise unless provided otherwise in provided otherwise in applicable otherwise in applicable union in applicable union or applicable union or national union or national law or national law in national law in particular law in particular in in particular in union particular in union law in union law on union law on the law on the protection on the protection of the protection of personal protection of personal data.
providers that that are are financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding their their internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes under under union union financial financial services services legislation legislation shall shall maintain maintain the the logs logs automatically automatically generated generated by by their their high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems as as part part of of the the documentation documentation kept kept under under the the relevant relevant financial financial service service legislation.
providers that are that are financial are financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding their regarding their internal their internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes under processes under union under union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation shall legislation shall maintain shall maintain the maintain the logs the logs automatically logs automatically generated automatically generated by generated by their by their high-risk their high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems as systems as part as part of part of the of the documentation the documentation kept documentation kept under kept under the under the relevant the relevant financial relevant financial service financial service legislation.
providers that are financial that are financial institutions are financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding their requirements regarding their internal regarding their internal governance their internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes under or processes under union processes under union financial under union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation shall services legislation shall maintain legislation shall maintain the shall maintain the logs maintain the logs automatically the logs automatically generated logs automatically generated by automatically generated by their generated by their high-risk by their high-risk ai their high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems as ai systems as part systems as part of as part of the part of the documentation of the documentation kept the documentation kept under documentation kept under the kept under the relevant under the relevant financial the relevant financial service relevant financial service legislation.
article corrective corrective actions actions providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems which which consider consider or or have have reason reason to to consider consider that that a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system which which they they have have placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service is is not not in in conformity conformity with with this this regulation regulation shall shall immediately immediately investigate investigate where where applicable applicable the the causes causes in in collaboration collaboration with with the the reporting reporting user user and and take take the the necessary necessary corrective corrective actions actions to to bring bring that that system system into into conformity conformity to to withdraw withdraw it it or or to to recall recall it it as as appropriate.
article corrective actions corrective actions providers actions providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems which systems which consider which consider or consider or have or have reason have reason to reason to consider to consider that consider that a that a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system which system which they which they have they have placed have placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service is service is not is not in not in conformity in conformity with conformity with this with this regulation this regulation shall regulation shall immediately shall immediately investigate immediately investigate where investigate where applicable where applicable the applicable the causes the causes in causes in collaboration in collaboration with collaboration with the with the reporting the reporting user reporting user and user and take and take the take the necessary the necessary corrective necessary corrective actions corrective actions to actions to bring to bring that bring that system that system into system into conformity into conformity to conformity to withdraw to withdraw it withdraw it or it or to or to recall to recall it recall it as it as appropriate.
article corrective actions providers corrective actions providers of actions providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems which ai systems which consider systems which consider or which consider or have consider or have reason or have reason to have reason to consider reason to consider that to consider that a consider that a high-risk that a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system which ai system which they system which they have which they have placed they have placed on have placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service is into service is not service is not in is not in conformity not in conformity with in conformity with this conformity with this regulation with this regulation shall this regulation shall immediately regulation shall immediately investigate shall immediately investigate where immediately investigate where applicable investigate where applicable the where applicable the causes applicable the causes in the causes in collaboration causes in collaboration with in collaboration with the collaboration with the reporting with the reporting user the reporting user and reporting user and take user and take the and take the necessary take the necessary corrective the necessary corrective actions necessary corrective actions to corrective actions to bring actions to bring that to bring that system bring that system into that system into conformity system into conformity to into conformity to withdraw conformity to withdraw it to withdraw it or withdraw it or to it or to recall or to recall it to recall it as recall it as appropriate.
they shall shall inform inform the the distributors distributors of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system in in question question and and where where applicable applicable the the authorised authorised representative representative and and importers importers accordingly.
they shall inform shall inform the inform the distributors the distributors of distributors of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system in system in question in question and question and where and where applicable where applicable the applicable the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative and representative and importers and importers accordingly.
they shall inform the shall inform the distributors inform the distributors of the distributors of the distributors of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system in ai system in question system in question and in question and where question and where applicable and where applicable the where applicable the authorised applicable the authorised representative the authorised representative and authorised representative and importers representative and importers accordingly.
tree..b rbek rbek en en article article duty duty of of information information where where the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system presents presents a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article and and that that risk risk is is known known to to the the provider provider of of the the system system that that provider provider shall shall immediately immediately inform inform the the national national competent competent authorities authorities of of the the member member states states in in which which it it made made the the system system available available and and where where applicable applicable the the notified notified body body that that issued issued a a certificate certificate for for the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system in in particular particular of of the the non-compliance non-compliance and and of of any any corrective corrective actions actions taken.
tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article duty article duty of duty of information of information where information where the where the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system presents system presents a presents a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article and article and that and that risk that risk is risk is known is known to known to the to the provider the provider of provider of the of the system the system that system that provider that provider shall provider shall immediately shall immediately inform immediately inform the inform the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities of authorities of the of the member the member states member states in states in which in which it which it made it made the made the system the system available system available and available and where and where applicable where applicable the applicable the notified the notified body notified body that body that issued that issued a issued a certificate a certificate for certificate for the for the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system in system in particular in particular of particular of the of the non-compliance the non-compliance and non-compliance and of and of any of any corrective any corrective actions corrective actions taken.
tree..b rbek en article rbek en article duty en article duty of article duty of information duty of information where of information where the information where the high-risk where the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system presents ai system presents a system presents a risk presents a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article and of article and that article and that risk and that risk is that risk is known risk is known to is known to the known to the provider to the provider of the provider of the provider of the system of the system that the system that provider system that provider shall that provider shall immediately provider shall immediately inform shall immediately inform the immediately inform the national inform the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities of competent authorities of the authorities of the member of the member states the member states in member states in which states in which it in which it made which it made the it made the system made the system available the system available and system available and where available and where applicable and where applicable the where applicable the notified applicable the notified body the notified body that notified body that issued body that issued a that issued a certificate issued a certificate for a certificate for the certificate for the high-risk for the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system in ai system in particular system in particular of in particular of the particular of the non-compliance of the non-compliance and the non-compliance and of non-compliance and of any and of any corrective of any corrective actions any corrective actions taken.
article cooperation cooperation with with competent competent authorities authorities providers providers of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall upon upon request request by by a a national national competent competent authority authority provide provide that that authority authority with with all all the the information information and and documentation documentation necessary necessary to to demonstrate demonstrate the the conformity conformity of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title in in a a language language which which can can be be easily easily understood understood by by the the authority authority of of the the member member state state concerned.
article cooperation with cooperation with competent with competent authorities competent authorities providers authorities providers of providers of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall upon shall upon request upon request by request by a by a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority provide authority provide that provide that authority that authority with authority with all with all the all the information the information and information and documentation and documentation necessary documentation necessary to necessary to demonstrate to demonstrate the demonstrate the conformity the conformity of conformity of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title in title in a in a language a language which language which can which can be can be easily be easily understood easily understood by understood by the by the authority the authority of authority of the of the member the member state member state concerned.
article cooperation with competent cooperation with competent authorities with competent authorities providers competent authorities providers of authorities providers of high-risk providers of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall upon systems shall upon request shall upon request by upon request by a request by a national by a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority provide competent authority provide that authority provide that authority provide that authority with that authority with all authority with all the with all the information all the information and the information and documentation information and documentation necessary and documentation necessary to documentation necessary to demonstrate necessary to demonstrate the to demonstrate the conformity demonstrate the conformity of the conformity of the conformity of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title in this title in a title in a language in a language which a language which can language which can be which can be easily can be easily understood be easily understood by easily understood by the understood by the authority by the authority of the authority of the authority of the member of the member state the member state concerned.
upon a a reasoned reasoned request request from from a a national national competent competent authority authority providers providers shall shall also also give give that that authority authority access access to to the the logs logs referred referred to to in in article article automatically automatically generated generated by by the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system to to the the extent extent such such logs logs are are under under their their control control by by virtue virtue of of a a contractual contractual arrangement arrangement with with the the user user or or otherwise otherwise by by law.
upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request from request from a from a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority providers authority providers shall providers shall also shall also give also give that give that authority that authority access authority access to access to the to the logs the logs referred logs referred to referred to in to in article in article automatically article automatically generated automatically generated by generated by the by the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system to system to the to the extent the extent such extent such logs such logs are logs are under are under their under their control their control by control by virtue by virtue of virtue of a of a contractual a contractual arrangement contractual arrangement with arrangement with the with the user the user or user or otherwise or otherwise by otherwise by law.
upon a reasoned request a reasoned request from reasoned request from a request from a national from a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority providers competent authority providers shall authority providers shall also providers shall also give shall also give that also give that authority give that authority access that authority access to authority access to the access to the logs to the logs referred the logs referred to logs referred to in referred to in article to in article automatically in article automatically generated article automatically generated by automatically generated by the generated by the high-risk by the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system to ai system to the system to the extent to the extent such the extent such logs extent such logs are such logs are under logs are under their are under their control under their control by their control by virtue control by virtue of by virtue of a virtue of a contractual of a contractual arrangement a contractual arrangement with contractual arrangement with the arrangement with the user with the user or the user or otherwise user or otherwise by or otherwise by law.
conditions for for other other persons persons to to be be subject subject to to the the obligations obligations of of a a provider provider article article a a .
conditions for other for other persons other persons to persons to be to be subject be subject to subject to the to the obligations the obligations of obligations of a of a provider a provider article provider article a article a .
conditions for other persons for other persons to other persons to be persons to be subject to be subject to be subject to the subject to the obligations to the obligations of the obligations of a obligations of a provider of a provider article a provider article a provider article a .
any natural natural or or legal legal person person shall shall be be considered considered a a provider provider of of a a new new high-risk high-risk ai ai system system for for the the purposes purposes of of this this regulation regulation and and shall shall be be subject subject to to the the obligations obligations of of the the provider provider under under article article in in any any of of the the following following circumstances circumstances a a they they put put their their name name or or trademark trademark on on a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system already already placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service without without prejudice prejudice to to contractual contractual arrangements arrangements stipulating stipulating that that the the obligations obligations are are allocated allocated otherwise otherwise tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en b b deleted deleted c c they they make make a a substantial substantial modification modification to to a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system already already placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service d d they they modify modify the the intended intended purpose purpose of of an an ai ai system system which which is is not not high-risk high-risk and and is is already already placed placed on on the the market market or or put put ito ito service service in in a a way way which which makes makes the the modified modified system system a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system e e they they place place on on the the market market or or put put into into service service a a general general purpose purpose ai ai system system as as a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or as as a a component component of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
any natural or natural or legal or legal person legal person shall person shall be shall be considered be considered a considered a provider a provider of provider of a of a new a new high-risk new high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system for system for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of this of this regulation this regulation and regulation and shall and shall be shall be subject be subject to subject to the to the obligations the obligations of obligations of the of the provider the provider under provider under article under article in article in any in any of any of the of the following the following circumstances following circumstances a circumstances a they a they put they put their put their name their name or name or trademark or trademark on trademark on a on a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system already system already placed already placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service without service without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to contractual to contractual arrangements contractual arrangements stipulating arrangements stipulating that stipulating that the that the obligations the obligations are obligations are allocated are allocated otherwise allocated otherwise tree..b otherwise tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en b en b deleted b deleted c deleted c they c they make they make a make a substantial a substantial modification substantial modification to modification to a to a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system already system already placed already placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service d service d they d they modify they modify the modify the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of an of an ai an ai system ai system which system which is which is not is not high-risk not high-risk and high-risk and is and is already is already placed already placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put ito put ito service ito service in service in a in a way a way which way which makes which makes the makes the modified the modified system modified system a system a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system e system e they e they place they place on place on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service a service a general a general purpose general purpose ai purpose ai system ai system as system as a as a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or as or as a as a component a component of component of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
any natural or legal natural or legal person or legal person shall legal person shall be person shall be considered shall be considered a be considered a provider considered a provider of a provider of a provider of a new of a new high-risk a new high-risk ai new high-risk ai system high-risk ai system for ai system for the system for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of this purposes of this regulation of this regulation and this regulation and shall regulation and shall be and shall be subject shall be subject to be subject to the subject to the obligations to the obligations of the obligations of the obligations of the provider of the provider under the provider under article provider under article in under article in any article in any of in any of the any of the following of the following circumstances the following circumstances a following circumstances a they circumstances a they put a they put their they put their name put their name or their name or trademark name or trademark on or trademark on a trademark on a high-risk on a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system already ai system already placed system already placed on already placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service without into service without prejudice service without prejudice to without prejudice to contractual prejudice to contractual arrangements to contractual arrangements stipulating contractual arrangements stipulating that arrangements stipulating that the stipulating that the obligations that the obligations are the obligations are allocated obligations are allocated otherwise are allocated otherwise tree..b allocated otherwise tree..b rbek otherwise tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en b rbek en b deleted en b deleted c b deleted c they deleted c they make c they make a they make a substantial make a substantial modification a substantial modification to substantial modification to a modification to a high-risk to a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system already ai system already placed system already placed on already placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service d into service d they service d they modify d they modify the they modify the intended modify the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of an purpose of an ai of an ai system an ai system which ai system which is system which is not which is not high-risk is not high-risk and not high-risk and is high-risk and is already and is already placed is already placed on already placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put ito or put ito service put ito service in ito service in a service in a way in a way which a way which makes way which makes the which makes the modified makes the modified system the modified system a modified system a high-risk system a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system e ai system e they system e they place e they place on they place on the place on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service a into service a general service a general purpose a general purpose ai general purpose ai system purpose ai system as ai system as a system as a high-risk as a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or as system or as a or as a component as a component of a component of a component of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system.
where the the circumstances circumstances referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph point point a a or or c c occur occur the the provider provider that that initially initially placed placed the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system on on the the market market or or put put it it into into service service shall shall no no longer longer be be considered considered a a provider provider for for the the purposes purposes of of this this regulation.
where the circumstances the circumstances referred circumstances referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph point paragraph point a point a or a or c or c occur c occur the occur the provider the provider that provider that initially that initially placed initially placed the placed the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system on system on the on the market the market or market or put or put it put it into it into service into service shall service shall no shall no longer no longer be longer be considered be considered a considered a provider a provider for provider for the for the purposes the purposes of purposes of this of this regulation.
where the circumstances referred the circumstances referred to circumstances referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph point in paragraph point a paragraph point a or point a or c a or c occur or c occur the c occur the provider occur the provider that the provider that initially provider that initially placed that initially placed the initially placed the high-risk placed the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system on ai system on the system on the market on the market or the market or put market or put it or put it into put it into service it into service shall into service shall no service shall no longer shall no longer be no longer be considered longer be considered a be considered a provider considered a provider for a provider for the provider for the purposes for the purposes of the purposes of this purposes of this regulation.
for high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are safety safety components components of of products products to to which which the the legal legal acts acts listed listed in in annex annex ii ii section section a a apply apply the the manufacturer manufacturer of of those those products products shall shall be be considered considered the the provider provider of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system and and shall shall be be subject subject to to the the obligations obligations under under article article under under either either of of the the following following scenarios scenarios i i the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is placed placed on on the the market market together together with with the the product product under under the the name name or or trademark trademark of of the the product product manufacturer manufacturer ii ii the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is put put into into service service under under the the the the name name or or trademark trademark of of the the product product manufacturer manufacturer after after the the product product has has been been placed placed on on the the market.
for high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are safety are safety components safety components of components of products of products to products to which to which the which the legal the legal acts legal acts listed acts listed in listed in annex in annex ii annex ii section ii section a section a apply a apply the apply the manufacturer the manufacturer of manufacturer of those of those products those products shall products shall be shall be considered be considered the considered the provider the provider of provider of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system and system and shall and shall be shall be subject be subject to subject to the to the obligations the obligations under obligations under article under article under article under either under either of either of the of the following the following scenarios following scenarios i scenarios i the i the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is placed is placed on placed on the on the market the market together market together with together with the with the product the product under product under the under the name the name or name or trademark or trademark of trademark of the of the product the product manufacturer product manufacturer ii manufacturer ii the ii the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is put is put into put into service into service under service under the under the the the the name the name or name or trademark or trademark of trademark of the of the product the product manufacturer product manufacturer after manufacturer after the after the product the product has product has been has been placed been placed on placed on the on the market.
for high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are safety that are safety components are safety components of safety components of products components of products to of products to which products to which the to which the legal which the legal acts the legal acts listed legal acts listed in acts listed in annex listed in annex ii in annex ii section annex ii section a ii section a apply section a apply the a apply the manufacturer apply the manufacturer of the manufacturer of those manufacturer of those products of those products shall those products shall be products shall be considered shall be considered the be considered the provider considered the provider of the provider of the provider of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system and ai system and shall system and shall be and shall be subject shall be subject to be subject to the subject to the obligations to the obligations under the obligations under article obligations under article under under article under either article under either of under either of the either of the following of the following scenarios the following scenarios i following scenarios i the scenarios i the high-risk i the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is placed system is placed on is placed on the placed on the market on the market together the market together with market together with the together with the product with the product under the product under the product under the name under the name or the name or trademark name or trademark of or trademark of the trademark of the product of the product manufacturer the product manufacturer ii product manufacturer ii the manufacturer ii the high-risk ii the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is put system is put into is put into service put into service under into service under the service under the the under the the name the the name or the name or trademark name or trademark of or trademark of the trademark of the product of the product manufacturer the product manufacturer after product manufacturer after the manufacturer after the product after the product has the product has been product has been placed has been placed on been placed on the placed on the market.
article deleted deleted tree..b tree..b rbek rbek en en article article authorised authorised representatives representatives .
article deleted tree..b deleted tree..b rbek tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article authorised article authorised representatives authorised representatives .
article deleted tree..b rbek deleted tree..b rbek en tree..b rbek en article rbek en article authorised en article authorised representatives article authorised representatives .
prior to to making making their their systems systems available available on on the the union union market market providers providers established established outside outside the the union union shall shall by by written written mandate mandate appoint appoint an an authorised authorised representative representative which which is is established established in in the the union.
prior to making to making their making their systems their systems available systems available on available on the on the union the union market union market providers market providers established providers established outside established outside the outside the union the union shall union shall by shall by written by written mandate written mandate appoint mandate appoint an appoint an authorised an authorised representative authorised representative which representative which is which is established is established in established in the in the union.
prior to making their to making their systems making their systems available their systems available on systems available on the available on the union on the union market the union market providers union market providers established market providers established outside providers established outside the established outside the union outside the union shall the union shall by union shall by written shall by written mandate by written mandate appoint written mandate appoint an mandate appoint an authorised appoint an authorised representative an authorised representative which authorised representative which is representative which is established which is established in is established in the established in the union.
the authorised authorised representative representative shall shall perform perform the the tasks tasks specified specified in in the the mandate mandate received received from from the the provider.
the authorised representative authorised representative shall representative shall perform shall perform the perform the tasks the tasks specified tasks specified in specified in the in the mandate the mandate received mandate received from received from the from the provider.
the authorised representative shall authorised representative shall perform representative shall perform the shall perform the tasks perform the tasks specified the tasks specified in tasks specified in the specified in the mandate in the mandate received the mandate received from mandate received from the received from the provider.
for the the purpose purpose of of this this regulation regulation the the mandate mandate shall shall empower empower the the authorised authorised representative representative to to carry carry out out only only the the following following tasks tasks -a -a verify verify that that the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity and and the the technical technical documentation documentation have have been been drawn drawn up up and and that that an an appropriate appropriate conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure has has been been carried carried out out by by the the provider provider a a keep keep at at the the disposal disposal of of the the national national competent competent authorities authorities and and national national authorities authorities referred referred to to in in article article for for a a period period ending ending years years after after the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system has has been been placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service the the contact contact details details of of the the provider provider by by which which the the authorised authorised representative representative has has been been appointed appointed a a copy copy of of the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity the the technical technical documentation documentation and and if if applicable applicable the the certificate certificate issued issued by by the the notified notified body body b b provide provide a a national national competent competent authority authority upon upon a a reasoned reasoned request request with with all all the the information information and and documentation documentation including including that that kept kept according according to to point point b b necessary necessary to to demonstrate demonstrate the the conformity conformity of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title including including access access to to the the logs logs referred referred to to in in article article automatically automatically generated generated by by the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system to to the the extent extent such such logs logs are are under under the the control control of of the the provider provider by by virtue virtue of of a a contractual contractual arrangement arrangement with with the the user user or or otherwise otherwise by by law law c c cooperate cooperate with with national national competent competent authorities authorities upon upon a a reasoned reasoned request request on on any any action action the the latter latter takes takes in in relation relation to to the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
for the purpose the purpose of purpose of this of this regulation this regulation the regulation the mandate the mandate shall mandate shall empower shall empower the empower the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative to representative to carry to carry out carry out only out only the only the following the following tasks following tasks -a tasks -a verify -a verify that verify that the that the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity and conformity and the and the technical the technical documentation technical documentation have documentation have been have been drawn been drawn up drawn up and up and that and that an that an appropriate an appropriate conformity appropriate conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure has procedure has been has been carried been carried out carried out by out by the by the provider the provider a provider a keep a keep at keep at the at the disposal the disposal of disposal of the of the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities and authorities and national and national authorities national authorities referred authorities referred to referred to in to in article in article for article for a for a period a period ending period ending years ending years after years after the after the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system has system has been has been placed been placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service the service the contact the contact details contact details of details of the of the provider the provider by provider by which by which the which the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative has representative has been has been appointed been appointed a appointed a copy a copy of copy of the of the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity the conformity the technical the technical documentation technical documentation and documentation and if and if applicable if applicable the applicable the certificate the certificate issued certificate issued by issued by the by the notified the notified body notified body b body b provide b provide a provide a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority upon authority upon a upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request with request with all with all the all the information the information and information and documentation and documentation including documentation including that including that kept that kept according kept according to according to point to point b point b necessary b necessary to necessary to demonstrate to demonstrate the demonstrate the conformity the conformity of conformity of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title including title including access including access to access to the to the logs the logs referred logs referred to referred to in to in article in article automatically article automatically generated automatically generated by generated by the by the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system to system to the to the extent the extent such extent such logs such logs are logs are under are under the under the control the control of control of the of the provider the provider by provider by virtue by virtue of virtue of a of a contractual a contractual arrangement contractual arrangement with arrangement with the with the user the user or user or otherwise or otherwise by otherwise by law by law c law c cooperate c cooperate with cooperate with national with national competent national competent authorities competent authorities upon authorities upon a upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request on request on any on any action any action the action the latter the latter takes latter takes in takes in relation in relation to relation to the to the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
for the purpose of the purpose of this purpose of this regulation of this regulation the this regulation the mandate regulation the mandate shall the mandate shall empower mandate shall empower the shall empower the authorised empower the authorised representative the authorised representative to authorised representative to carry representative to carry out to carry out only carry out only the out only the following only the following tasks the following tasks -a following tasks -a verify tasks -a verify that -a verify that the verify that the eu that the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity and of conformity and the conformity and the technical and the technical documentation the technical documentation have technical documentation have been documentation have been drawn have been drawn up been drawn up and drawn up and that up and that an and that an appropriate that an appropriate conformity an appropriate conformity assessment appropriate conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure has assessment procedure has been procedure has been carried has been carried out been carried out by carried out by the out by the provider by the provider a the provider a keep provider a keep at a keep at the keep at the disposal at the disposal of the disposal of the disposal of the national of the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities and competent authorities and national authorities and national authorities and national authorities referred national authorities referred to authorities referred to in referred to in article to in article for in article for a article for a period for a period ending a period ending years period ending years after ending years after the years after the high-risk after the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system has ai system has been system has been placed has been placed on been placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service the into service the contact service the contact details the contact details of contact details of the details of the provider of the provider by the provider by which provider by which the by which the authorised which the authorised representative the authorised representative has authorised representative has been representative has been appointed has been appointed a been appointed a copy appointed a copy of a copy of the copy of the eu of the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity the of conformity the technical conformity the technical documentation the technical documentation and technical documentation and if documentation and if applicable and if applicable the if applicable the certificate applicable the certificate issued the certificate issued by certificate issued by the issued by the notified by the notified body the notified body b notified body b provide body b provide a b provide a national provide a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority upon competent authority upon a authority upon a reasoned upon a reasoned request a reasoned request with reasoned request with all request with all the with all the information all the information and the information and documentation information and documentation including and documentation including that documentation including that kept including that kept according that kept according to kept according to point according to point b to point b necessary point b necessary to b necessary to demonstrate necessary to demonstrate the to demonstrate the conformity demonstrate the conformity of the conformity of a conformity of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title including this title including access title including access to including access to the access to the logs to the logs referred the logs referred to logs referred to in referred to in article to in article automatically in article automatically generated article automatically generated by automatically generated by the generated by the high-risk by the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system to ai system to the system to the extent to the extent such the extent such logs extent such logs are such logs are under logs are under the are under the control under the control of the control of the control of the provider of the provider by the provider by virtue provider by virtue of by virtue of a virtue of a contractual of a contractual arrangement a contractual arrangement with contractual arrangement with the arrangement with the user with the user or the user or otherwise user or otherwise by or otherwise by law otherwise by law c by law c cooperate law c cooperate with c cooperate with national cooperate with national competent with national competent authorities national competent authorities upon competent authorities upon a authorities upon a reasoned upon a reasoned request a reasoned request on reasoned request on any request on any action on any action the any action the latter action the latter takes the latter takes in latter takes in relation takes in relation to in relation to the relation to the high-risk to the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system.
tree..b rbek rbek en en d d comply comply with with the the registration registration obligations obligations referred referred to to in in article article and and if if the the registration registration of of the the system system is is carried carried out out by by the the provider provider itself itself verify verify that that the the information information referred referred to to in in annex annex viii viii part part ii ii to to is is correct.
tree..b rbek en rbek en d en d comply d comply with comply with the with the registration the registration obligations registration obligations referred obligations referred to referred to in to in article in article and article and if and if the if the registration the registration of registration of the of the system the system is system is carried is carried out carried out by out by the by the provider the provider itself provider itself verify itself verify that verify that the that the information the information referred information referred to referred to in to in annex in annex viii annex viii part viii part ii part ii to ii to is to is correct.
tree..b rbek en d rbek en d comply en d comply with d comply with the comply with the registration with the registration obligations the registration obligations referred registration obligations referred to obligations referred to in referred to in article to in article and in article and if article and if the and if the registration if the registration of the registration of the registration of the system of the system is the system is carried system is carried out is carried out by carried out by the out by the provider by the provider itself the provider itself verify provider itself verify that itself verify that the verify that the information that the information referred the information referred to information referred to in referred to in annex to in annex viii in annex viii part annex viii part ii viii part ii to part ii to is ii to is correct.
the authorised authorised representative representative shall shall terminate terminate the the mandate mandate if if it it has has sufficient sufficient reasons reasons to to consider consider that that the the provider provider acts acts contrary contrary to to its its obligations obligations under under this this regulation.
the authorised representative authorised representative shall representative shall terminate shall terminate the terminate the mandate the mandate if mandate if it if it has it has sufficient has sufficient reasons sufficient reasons to reasons to consider to consider that consider that the that the provider the provider acts provider acts contrary acts contrary to contrary to its to its obligations its obligations under obligations under this under this regulation.
the authorised representative shall authorised representative shall terminate representative shall terminate the shall terminate the mandate terminate the mandate if the mandate if it mandate if it has if it has sufficient it has sufficient reasons has sufficient reasons to sufficient reasons to consider reasons to consider that to consider that the consider that the provider that the provider acts the provider acts contrary provider acts contrary to acts contrary to its contrary to its obligations to its obligations under its obligations under this obligations under this regulation.
in such such a a case case it it shall shall also also immediately immediately inform inform the the market market surveillance surveillance authority authority of of the the member member state state in in which which it it is is established established as as well well as as where where applicable applicable the the relevant relevant notified notified body body about about the the termination termination of of the the mandate mandate and and the the reasons reasons thereof.
in such a such a case a case it case it shall it shall also shall also immediately also immediately inform immediately inform the inform the market the market surveillance market surveillance authority surveillance authority of authority of the of the member the member state member state in state in which in which it which it is it is established is established as established as well as well as well as where as where applicable where applicable the applicable the relevant the relevant notified relevant notified body notified body about body about the about the termination the termination of termination of the of the mandate the mandate and mandate and the and the reasons the reasons thereof.
in such a case such a case it a case it shall case it shall also it shall also immediately shall also immediately inform also immediately inform the immediately inform the market inform the market surveillance the market surveillance authority market surveillance authority of surveillance authority of the authority of the member of the member state the member state in member state in which state in which it in which it is which it is established it is established as is established as well established as well as as well as where well as where applicable as where applicable the where applicable the relevant applicable the relevant notified the relevant notified body relevant notified body about notified body about the body about the termination about the termination of the termination of the termination of the mandate of the mandate and the mandate and the mandate and the reasons and the reasons thereof.
the authorised authorised representative representative shall shall be be legally legally liable liable for for defective defective ai ai systems systems on on the the same same basis basis as as and and jointly jointly and and severally severally with with the the provider provider in in respect respect of of its its potential potential liability liability under under council council directive directive eec.
the authorised representative authorised representative shall representative shall be shall be legally be legally liable legally liable for liable for defective for defective ai defective ai systems ai systems on systems on the on the same the same basis same basis as basis as and as and jointly and jointly and jointly and severally and severally with severally with the with the provider the provider in provider in respect in respect of respect of its of its potential its potential liability potential liability under liability under council under council directive council directive eec.
the authorised representative shall authorised representative shall be representative shall be legally shall be legally liable be legally liable for legally liable for defective liable for defective ai for defective ai systems defective ai systems on ai systems on the systems on the same on the same basis the same basis as same basis as and basis as and jointly as and jointly and and jointly and severally jointly and severally with and severally with the severally with the provider with the provider in the provider in respect provider in respect of in respect of its respect of its potential of its potential liability its potential liability under potential liability under council liability under council directive under council directive eec.
article obligations obligations of of importers importers .
article obligations of obligations of importers of importers .
article obligations of importers obligations of importers .
before placing placing a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system on on the the market market importers importers of of such such system system shall shall ensure ensure that that such such a a system system is is in in conformity conformity with with this this regulation regulation by by verifying verifying that that a a the the relevant relevant conformity conformity assessment assessment procedure procedure referred referred to to in in article article has has been been carried carried out out by by the the provider provider of of that that ai ai system system b b the the provider provider has has drawn drawn up up the the technical technical documentation documentation in in accordance accordance with with annex annex iv iv c c the the system system bears bears the the required required ce ce conformity conformity marking marking and and is is accompanied accompanied by by the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity and and instructions instructions of of use use d d the the authorised authorised representative representative referred referred to to in in article article has has been been established established by by the the provider.
before placing a placing a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system on system on the on the market the market importers market importers of importers of such of such system such system shall system shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that such that such a such a system a system is system is in is in conformity in conformity with conformity with this with this regulation this regulation by regulation by verifying by verifying that verifying that a that a the a the relevant the relevant conformity relevant conformity assessment conformity assessment procedure assessment procedure referred procedure referred to referred to in to in article in article has article has been has been carried been carried out carried out by out by the by the provider the provider of provider of that of that ai that ai system ai system b system b the b the provider the provider has provider has drawn has drawn up drawn up the up the technical the technical documentation technical documentation in documentation in accordance in accordance with accordance with annex with annex iv annex iv c iv c the c the system the system bears system bears the bears the required the required ce required ce conformity ce conformity marking conformity marking and marking and is and is accompanied is accompanied by accompanied by the by the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity and conformity and instructions and instructions of instructions of use of use d use d the d the authorised the authorised representative authorised representative referred representative referred to referred to in to in article in article has article has been has been established been established by established by the by the provider.
before placing a high-risk placing a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system on ai system on the system on the market on the market importers the market importers of market importers of such importers of such system of such system shall such system shall ensure system shall ensure that shall ensure that such ensure that such a that such a system such a system is a system is in system is in conformity is in conformity with in conformity with this conformity with this regulation with this regulation by this regulation by verifying regulation by verifying that by verifying that a verifying that a the that a the relevant a the relevant conformity the relevant conformity assessment relevant conformity assessment procedure conformity assessment procedure referred assessment procedure referred to procedure referred to in referred to in article to in article has in article has been article has been carried has been carried out been carried out by carried out by the out by the provider by the provider of the provider of that provider of that ai of that ai system that ai system b ai system b the system b the provider b the provider has the provider has drawn provider has drawn up has drawn up the drawn up the technical up the technical documentation the technical documentation in technical documentation in accordance documentation in accordance with in accordance with annex accordance with annex iv with annex iv c annex iv c the iv c the system c the system bears the system bears the system bears the required bears the required ce the required ce conformity required ce conformity marking ce conformity marking and conformity marking and is marking and is accompanied and is accompanied by is accompanied by the accompanied by the eu by the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity and of conformity and instructions conformity and instructions of and instructions of use instructions of use d of use d the use d the authorised d the authorised representative the authorised representative referred authorised representative referred to representative referred to in referred to in article to in article has in article has been article has been established has been established by been established by the established by the provider.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
where an an importer importer has has sufficient sufficient reasons reasons to to consider consider that that a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is not not in in conformity conformity with with this this regulation regulation or or is is falsified falsified or or accompanied accompanied by by falsified falsified documentation documentation it it shall shall not not place place that that system system on on the the market market until until that that ai ai system system has has been been brought brought into into conformity.
where an importer an importer has importer has sufficient has sufficient reasons sufficient reasons to reasons to consider to consider that consider that a that a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is not is not in not in conformity in conformity with conformity with this with this regulation this regulation or regulation or is or is falsified is falsified or falsified or accompanied or accompanied by accompanied by falsified by falsified documentation falsified documentation it documentation it shall it shall not shall not place not place that place that system that system on system on the on the market the market until market until that until that ai that ai system ai system has system has been has been brought been brought into brought into conformity.
where an importer has an importer has sufficient importer has sufficient reasons has sufficient reasons to sufficient reasons to consider reasons to consider that to consider that a consider that a high-risk that a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is not system is not in is not in conformity not in conformity with in conformity with this conformity with this regulation with this regulation or this regulation or is regulation or is falsified or is falsified or is falsified or accompanied falsified or accompanied by or accompanied by falsified accompanied by falsified documentation by falsified documentation it falsified documentation it shall documentation it shall not it shall not place shall not place that not place that system place that system on that system on the system on the market on the market until the market until that market until that ai until that ai system that ai system has ai system has been system has been brought has been brought into been brought into conformity.
where the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system presents presents a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article the the importer importer shall shall inform inform the the provider provider of of the the ai ai system system the the authorised authorised representatives representatives and and the the market market surveillance surveillance authorities authorities to to that that effect.
where the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system presents system presents a presents a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article the article the importer the importer shall importer shall inform shall inform the inform the provider the provider of provider of the of the ai the ai system ai system the system the authorised the authorised representatives authorised representatives and representatives and the and the market the market surveillance market surveillance authorities surveillance authorities to authorities to that to that effect.
where the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system presents ai system presents a system presents a risk presents a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article the of article the importer article the importer shall the importer shall inform importer shall inform the shall inform the provider inform the provider of the provider of the provider of the ai of the ai system the ai system the ai system the authorised system the authorised representatives the authorised representatives and authorised representatives and the representatives and the market and the market surveillance the market surveillance authorities market surveillance authorities to surveillance authorities to that authorities to that effect.
importers shall shall indicate indicate their their name name registered registered trade trade name name or or registered registered trade trade mark mark and and the the address address at at which which they they can can be be contacted contacted on on the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system or or where where that that is is not not possible possible on on its its packaging packaging or or its its accompanying accompanying documentation documentation as as applicable.
importers shall indicate shall indicate their indicate their name their name registered name registered trade registered trade name trade name or name or registered or registered trade registered trade mark trade mark and mark and the and the address the address at address at which at which they which they can they can be can be contacted be contacted on contacted on the on the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system or system or where or where that where that is that is not is not possible not possible on possible on its on its packaging its packaging or packaging or its or its accompanying its accompanying documentation accompanying documentation as documentation as applicable.
importers shall indicate their shall indicate their name indicate their name registered their name registered trade name registered trade name registered trade name or trade name or registered name or registered trade or registered trade mark registered trade mark and trade mark and the mark and the address and the address at the address at which address at which they at which they can which they can be they can be contacted can be contacted on be contacted on the contacted on the high-risk on the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system or ai system or where system or where that or where that is where that is not that is not possible is not possible on not possible on its possible on its packaging on its packaging or its packaging or its packaging or its accompanying or its accompanying documentation its accompanying documentation as accompanying documentation as applicable.
importers shall shall ensure ensure that that while while a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is under under their their responsibility responsibility where where applicable applicable storage storage or or transport transport conditions conditions do do not not jeopardise jeopardise its its compliance compliance with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title.
importers shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that while that while a while a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is under is under their under their responsibility their responsibility where responsibility where applicable where applicable storage applicable storage or storage or transport or transport conditions transport conditions do conditions do not do not jeopardise not jeopardise its jeopardise its compliance its compliance with compliance with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title.
importers shall ensure that shall ensure that while ensure that while a that while a high-risk while a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is under system is under their is under their responsibility under their responsibility where their responsibility where applicable responsibility where applicable storage where applicable storage or applicable storage or transport storage or transport conditions or transport conditions do transport conditions do not conditions do not jeopardise do not jeopardise its not jeopardise its compliance jeopardise its compliance with its compliance with the compliance with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title.
a. importers importers shall shall keep keep for for a a period period ending ending years years after after the the ai ai system system has has been been placed placed on on the the market market or or put put into into service service a a copy copy of of the the certificate certificate issued issued by by the the notified notified body body where where applicable applicable of of the the instructions instructions for for use use and and of of the the eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity.
a. importers shall importers shall keep shall keep for keep for a for a period a period ending period ending years ending years after years after the after the ai the ai system ai system has system has been has been placed been placed on placed on the on the market the market or market or put or put into put into service into service a service a copy a copy of copy of the of the certificate the certificate issued certificate issued by issued by the by the notified the notified body notified body where body where applicable where applicable of applicable of the of the instructions the instructions for instructions for use for use and use and of and of the of the eu the eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity.
a. importers shall keep importers shall keep for shall keep for a keep for a period for a period ending a period ending years period ending years after ending years after the years after the ai after the ai system the ai system has ai system has been system has been placed has been placed on been placed on the placed on the market on the market or the market or put market or put into or put into service put into service a into service a copy service a copy of a copy of the copy of the certificate of the certificate issued the certificate issued by certificate issued by the issued by the notified by the notified body the notified body where notified body where applicable body where applicable of where applicable of the applicable of the instructions of the instructions for the instructions for use instructions for use and for use and of use and of the and of the eu of the eu declaration the eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity.
importers shall shall provide provide national national competent competent authorities authorities upon upon a a reasoned reasoned request request with with all all necessary necessary information information and and documentation documentation including including that that kept kept in in accordance accordance with with paragraph paragraph to to demonstrate demonstrate the the conformity conformity of of a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title in in a a language language which which can can be be easily easily understood understood by by that that national national competent competent authority.
importers shall provide shall provide national provide national competent national competent authorities competent authorities upon authorities upon a upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request with request with all with all necessary all necessary information necessary information and information and documentation and documentation including documentation including that including that kept that kept in kept in accordance in accordance with accordance with paragraph with paragraph to paragraph to demonstrate to demonstrate the demonstrate the conformity the conformity of conformity of a of a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title in title in a in a language a language which language which can which can be can be easily be easily understood easily understood by understood by that by that national that national competent national competent authority.
importers shall provide national shall provide national competent provide national competent authorities national competent authorities upon competent authorities upon a authorities upon a reasoned upon a reasoned request a reasoned request with reasoned request with all request with all necessary with all necessary information all necessary information and necessary information and documentation information and documentation including and documentation including that documentation including that kept including that kept in that kept in accordance kept in accordance with in accordance with paragraph accordance with paragraph to with paragraph to demonstrate paragraph to demonstrate the to demonstrate the conformity demonstrate the conformity of the conformity of a conformity of a high-risk of a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system with ai system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title in this title in a title in a language in a language which a language which can language which can be which can be easily can be easily understood be easily understood by easily understood by that understood by that national by that national competent that national competent authority.
to this this purpose purpose they they shall shall also also ensure ensure that that the the technical technical documentation documentation can can be be made made available available to to those those authorities.
to this purpose this purpose they purpose they shall they shall also shall also ensure also ensure that ensure that the that the technical the technical documentation technical documentation can documentation can be can be made be made available made available to available to those to those authorities.
to this purpose they this purpose they shall purpose they shall also they shall also ensure shall also ensure that also ensure that the ensure that the technical that the technical documentation the technical documentation can technical documentation can be documentation can be made can be made available be made available to made available to those available to those authorities.
a. importers importers shall shall cooperate cooperate with with national national competent competent authorities authorities on on any any action action those those authorities authorities take take in in relation relation to to an an ai ai system system of of which which they they are are the the importer.
a. importers shall importers shall cooperate shall cooperate with cooperate with national with national competent national competent authorities competent authorities on authorities on any on any action any action those action those authorities those authorities take authorities take in take in relation in relation to relation to an to an ai an ai system ai system of system of which of which they which they are they are the are the importer.
a. importers shall cooperate importers shall cooperate with shall cooperate with national cooperate with national competent with national competent authorities national competent authorities on competent authorities on any authorities on any action on any action those any action those authorities action those authorities take those authorities take in authorities take in relation take in relation to in relation to an relation to an ai to an ai system an ai system of ai system of which system of which they of which they are which they are the they are the importer.
tree..b rbek rbek en en article article obligations obligations of of distributors distributors .
tree..b rbek en rbek en article en article obligations article obligations of obligations of distributors of distributors .
tree..b rbek en article rbek en article obligations en article obligations of article obligations of distributors obligations of distributors .
before making making a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system available available on on the the market market distributors distributors shall shall verify verify that that the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system bears bears the the required required ce ce conformity conformity marking marking that that it it is is accompanied accompanied by by a a copy copy of of eu eu declaration declaration of of conformity conformity and and instruction instruction of of use use and and that that the the provider provider and and the the importer importer of of the the system system as as applicable applicable have have complied complied with with their their obligations obligations set set out out article article point point b b and and respectively.
before making a making a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system available system available on available on the on the market the market distributors market distributors shall distributors shall verify shall verify that verify that the that the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system bears system bears the bears the required the required ce required ce conformity ce conformity marking conformity marking that marking that it that it is it is accompanied is accompanied by accompanied by a by a copy a copy of copy of eu of eu declaration eu declaration of declaration of conformity of conformity and conformity and instruction and instruction of instruction of use of use and use and that and that the that the provider the provider and provider and the and the importer the importer of importer of the of the system the system as system as applicable as applicable have applicable have complied have complied with complied with their with their obligations their obligations set obligations set out set out article out article point article point b point b and b and respectively.
before making a high-risk making a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system available ai system available on system available on the available on the market on the market distributors the market distributors shall market distributors shall verify distributors shall verify that shall verify that the verify that the high-risk that the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system bears ai system bears the system bears the required bears the required ce the required ce conformity required ce conformity marking ce conformity marking that conformity marking that it marking that it is that it is accompanied it is accompanied by is accompanied by a accompanied by a copy by a copy of a copy of eu copy of eu declaration of eu declaration of eu declaration of conformity declaration of conformity and of conformity and instruction conformity and instruction of and instruction of use instruction of use and of use and that use and that the and that the provider that the provider and the provider and the provider and the importer and the importer of the importer of the importer of the system of the system as the system as applicable system as applicable have as applicable have complied applicable have complied with have complied with their complied with their obligations with their obligations set their obligations set out obligations set out article set out article point out article point b article point b and point b and respectively.
where a a distributor distributor considers considers or or has has reason reason to to consider consider that that a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is not not in in conformity conformity with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title it it shall shall not not make make the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system available available on on the the market market until until that that system system has has been been brought brought into into conformity conformity with with those those requirements.
where a distributor a distributor considers distributor considers or considers or has or has reason has reason to reason to consider to consider that consider that a that a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is not is not in not in conformity in conformity with conformity with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title it title it shall it shall not shall not make not make the make the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system available system available on available on the on the market the market until market until that until that system that system has system has been has been brought been brought into brought into conformity into conformity with conformity with those with those requirements.
where a distributor considers a distributor considers or distributor considers or has considers or has reason or has reason to has reason to consider reason to consider that to consider that a consider that a high-risk that a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is not system is not in is not in conformity not in conformity with in conformity with the conformity with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title it this title it shall title it shall not it shall not make shall not make the not make the high-risk make the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system available ai system available on system available on the available on the market on the market until the market until that market until that system until that system has that system has been system has been brought has been brought into been brought into conformity brought into conformity with into conformity with those conformity with those requirements.
furthermore where where the the system system presents presents a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article the the distributor distributor shall shall inform inform the the provider provider or or the the importer importer of of the the system system as as applicable applicable to to that that effect.
furthermore where the where the system the system presents system presents a presents a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article the article the distributor the distributor shall distributor shall inform shall inform the inform the provider the provider or provider or the or the importer the importer of importer of the of the system the system as system as applicable as applicable to applicable to that to that effect.
furthermore where the system where the system presents the system presents a system presents a risk presents a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article the of article the distributor article the distributor shall the distributor shall inform distributor shall inform the shall inform the provider inform the provider or the provider or the provider or the importer or the importer of the importer of the importer of the system of the system as the system as applicable system as applicable to as applicable to that applicable to that effect.
distributors shall shall ensure ensure that that while while a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system is is under under their their responsibility responsibility where where applicable applicable storage storage or or transport transport conditions conditions do do not not jeopardise jeopardise the the compliance compliance of of the the system system with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title.
distributors shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that while that while a while a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system is system is under is under their under their responsibility their responsibility where responsibility where applicable where applicable storage applicable storage or storage or transport or transport conditions transport conditions do conditions do not do not jeopardise not jeopardise the jeopardise the compliance the compliance of compliance of the of the system the system with system with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title.
distributors shall ensure that shall ensure that while ensure that while a that while a high-risk while a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system is ai system is under system is under their is under their responsibility under their responsibility where their responsibility where applicable responsibility where applicable storage where applicable storage or applicable storage or transport storage or transport conditions or transport conditions do transport conditions do not conditions do not jeopardise do not jeopardise the not jeopardise the compliance jeopardise the compliance of the compliance of the compliance of the system of the system with the system with the system with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title.
a distributor distributor that that considers considers or or has has reason reason to to consider consider that that a a high-risk high-risk ai ai system system which which it it has has made made available available on on the the market market is is not not in in conformity conformity with with the the requirements requirements set set out out in in chapter chapter of of this this title title shall shall take take the the corrective corrective actions actions necessary necessary to to bring bring that that system system into into conformity conformity with with those those requirements requirements to to withdraw withdraw it it or or recall recall it it or or shall shall ensure ensure that that the the provider provider the the importer importer or or any any relevant relevant operator operator as as appropriate appropriate takes takes those those corrective corrective actions.
a distributor that distributor that considers that considers or considers or has or has reason has reason to reason to consider to consider that consider that a that a high-risk a high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system which system which it which it has it has made has made available made available on available on the on the market the market is market is not is not in not in conformity in conformity with conformity with the with the requirements the requirements set requirements set out set out in out in chapter in chapter of chapter of this of this title this title shall title shall take shall take the take the corrective the corrective actions corrective actions necessary actions necessary to necessary to bring to bring that bring that system that system into system into conformity into conformity with conformity with those with those requirements those requirements to requirements to withdraw to withdraw it withdraw it or it or recall or recall it recall it or it or shall or shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that the that the provider the provider the provider the importer the importer or importer or any or any relevant any relevant operator relevant operator as operator as appropriate as appropriate takes appropriate takes those takes those corrective those corrective actions.
a distributor that considers distributor that considers or that considers or has considers or has reason or has reason to has reason to consider reason to consider that to consider that a consider that a high-risk that a high-risk ai a high-risk ai system high-risk ai system which ai system which it system which it has which it has made it has made available has made available on made available on the available on the market on the market is the market is not market is not in is not in conformity not in conformity with in conformity with the conformity with the requirements with the requirements set the requirements set out requirements set out in set out in chapter out in chapter of in chapter of this chapter of this title of this title shall this title shall take title shall take the shall take the corrective take the corrective actions the corrective actions necessary corrective actions necessary to actions necessary to bring necessary to bring that to bring that system bring that system into that system into conformity system into conformity with into conformity with those conformity with those requirements with those requirements to those requirements to withdraw requirements to withdraw it to withdraw it or withdraw it or recall it or recall it or recall it or recall it or shall it or shall ensure or shall ensure that shall ensure that the ensure that the provider that the provider the the provider the importer provider the importer or the importer or any importer or any relevant or any relevant operator any relevant operator as relevant operator as appropriate operator as appropriate takes as appropriate takes those appropriate takes those corrective takes those corrective actions.
where the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system presents presents a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article the the distributor distributor shall shall immediately immediately inform inform the the national national competent competent authorities authorities of of the the member member states states in in which which it it has has made made the the product product available available to to that that effect effect giving giving details details in in particular particular of of the the non-compliance non-compliance and and of of any any corrective corrective actions actions taken.
where the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system presents system presents a presents a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article the article the distributor the distributor shall distributor shall immediately shall immediately inform immediately inform the inform the national the national competent national competent authorities competent authorities of authorities of the of the member the member states member states in states in which in which it which it has it has made has made the made the product the product available product available to available to that to that effect that effect giving effect giving details giving details in details in particular in particular of particular of the of the non-compliance the non-compliance and non-compliance and of and of any of any corrective any corrective actions corrective actions taken.
where the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system presents ai system presents a system presents a risk presents a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article the of article the distributor article the distributor shall the distributor shall immediately distributor shall immediately inform shall immediately inform the immediately inform the national inform the national competent the national competent authorities national competent authorities of competent authorities of the authorities of the member of the member states the member states in member states in which states in which it in which it has which it has made it has made the has made the product made the product available the product available to product available to that available to that effect to that effect giving that effect giving details effect giving details in giving details in particular details in particular of in particular of the particular of the non-compliance of the non-compliance and the non-compliance and of non-compliance and of any and of any corrective of any corrective actions any corrective actions taken.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
upon a a reasoned reasoned request request from from a a national national competent competent authority authority distributors distributors of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall provide provide that that authority authority with with all all the the information information and and documentation documentation regarding regarding its its activities activities as as described described in in paragraph paragraph to to .
upon a reasoned a reasoned request reasoned request from request from a from a national a national competent national competent authority competent authority distributors authority distributors of distributors of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall provide shall provide that provide that authority that authority with authority with all with all the all the information the information and information and documentation and documentation regarding documentation regarding its regarding its activities its activities as activities as described as described in described in paragraph in paragraph to paragraph to .
upon a reasoned request a reasoned request from reasoned request from a request from a national from a national competent a national competent authority national competent authority distributors competent authority distributors of authority distributors of high-risk distributors of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall provide systems shall provide that shall provide that authority provide that authority with that authority with all authority with all the with all the information all the information and the information and documentation information and documentation regarding and documentation regarding its documentation regarding its activities regarding its activities as its activities as described activities as described in as described in paragraph described in paragraph to in paragraph to .
a. distributors distributors shall shall cooperate cooperate with with national national competent competent authorities authorities on on any any action action those those authorities authorities take take in in relation relation to to an an ai ai system system of of which which they they are are the the distributor.
a. distributors shall distributors shall cooperate shall cooperate with cooperate with national with national competent national competent authorities competent authorities on authorities on any on any action any action those action those authorities those authorities take authorities take in take in relation in relation to relation to an to an ai an ai system ai system of system of which of which they which they are they are the are the distributor.
a. distributors shall cooperate distributors shall cooperate with shall cooperate with national cooperate with national competent with national competent authorities national competent authorities on competent authorities on any authorities on any action on any action those any action those authorities action those authorities take those authorities take in authorities take in relation take in relation to in relation to an relation to an ai to an ai system an ai system of ai system of which system of which they of which they are which they are the they are the distributor.
article deleted deleted article article obligations obligations of of users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems .
article deleted article deleted article obligations article obligations of obligations of users of users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems .
article deleted article obligations deleted article obligations of article obligations of users obligations of users of of users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems .
users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall use use such such systems systems in in accordance accordance with with the the instructions instructions of of use use accompanying accompanying the the systems systems pursuant pursuant to to paragraphs paragraphs and and of of this this article.
users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall use shall use such use such systems such systems in systems in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the instructions the instructions of instructions of use of use accompanying use accompanying the accompanying the systems the systems pursuant systems pursuant to pursuant to paragraphs to paragraphs and paragraphs and of and of this of this article.
users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall use systems shall use such shall use such systems use such systems in such systems in accordance systems in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the instructions with the instructions of the instructions of use instructions of use accompanying of use accompanying the use accompanying the systems accompanying the systems pursuant the systems pursuant to systems pursuant to paragraphs pursuant to paragraphs and to paragraphs and of paragraphs and of this and of this article.
a. users users shall shall assign assign human human oversight oversight to to natural natural persons persons who who have have the the necessary necessary competence competence training training and and authority.
a. users shall users shall assign shall assign human assign human oversight human oversight to oversight to natural to natural persons natural persons who persons who have who have the have the necessary the necessary competence necessary competence training competence training and training and authority.
a. users shall assign users shall assign human shall assign human oversight assign human oversight to human oversight to natural oversight to natural persons to natural persons who natural persons who have persons who have the who have the necessary have the necessary competence the necessary competence training necessary competence training and competence training and authority.
the obligations obligations in in paragraph paragraph and and a a are are without without prejudice prejudice to to other other user user obligations obligations under under union union or or national national law law and and to to the the user’s user’s discretion discretion in in organising organising its its own own resources resources and and activities activities for for the the purpose purpose of of implementing implementing the the human human oversight oversight measures measures indicated indicated by by the the provider.
the obligations in obligations in paragraph in paragraph and paragraph and a and a are a are without are without prejudice without prejudice to prejudice to other to other user other user obligations user obligations under obligations under union under union or union or national or national law national law and law and to and to the to the user’s the user’s discretion user’s discretion in discretion in organising in organising its organising its own its own resources own resources and resources and activities and activities for activities for the for the purpose the purpose of purpose of implementing of implementing the implementing the human the human oversight human oversight measures oversight measures indicated measures indicated by indicated by the by the provider.
the obligations in paragraph obligations in paragraph and in paragraph and a paragraph and a are and a are without a are without prejudice are without prejudice to without prejudice to other prejudice to other user to other user obligations other user obligations under user obligations under union obligations under union or under union or national union or national law or national law and national law and to law and to the and to the user’s to the user’s discretion the user’s discretion in user’s discretion in organising discretion in organising its in organising its own organising its own resources its own resources and own resources and activities resources and activities for and activities for the activities for the purpose for the purpose of the purpose of implementing purpose of implementing the of implementing the human implementing the human oversight the human oversight measures human oversight measures indicated oversight measures indicated by measures indicated by the indicated by the provider.
without prejudice prejudice to to paragraph paragraph to to the the extent extent the the user user exercises exercises control control over over the the input input data data that that user user shall shall ensure ensure that that input input data data is is relevant relevant in in view view of of the the intended intended purpose purpose of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system.
without prejudice to prejudice to paragraph to paragraph to paragraph to the to the extent the extent the extent the user the user exercises user exercises control exercises control over control over the over the input the input data input data that data that user that user shall user shall ensure shall ensure that ensure that input that input data input data is data is relevant is relevant in relevant in view in view of view of the of the intended the intended purpose intended purpose of purpose of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system.
without prejudice to paragraph prejudice to paragraph to to paragraph to the paragraph to the extent to the extent the the extent the user extent the user exercises the user exercises control user exercises control over exercises control over the control over the input over the input data the input data that input data that user data that user shall that user shall ensure user shall ensure that shall ensure that input ensure that input data that input data is input data is relevant data is relevant in is relevant in view relevant in view of in view of the view of the intended of the intended purpose the intended purpose of intended purpose of the purpose of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
users shall shall implement implement human human oversight oversight and and monitor monitor the the operation operation of of the the high-risk high-risk ai ai system system on on the the basis basis of of the the instructions instructions of of use.
users shall implement shall implement human implement human oversight human oversight and oversight and monitor and monitor the monitor the operation the operation of operation of the of the high-risk the high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system on system on the on the basis the basis of basis of the of the instructions the instructions of instructions of use.
users shall implement human shall implement human oversight implement human oversight and human oversight and monitor oversight and monitor the and monitor the operation monitor the operation of the operation of the operation of the high-risk of the high-risk ai the high-risk ai system high-risk ai system on ai system on the system on the basis on the basis of the basis of the basis of the instructions of the instructions of the instructions of use.
when they they have have reasons reasons to to consider consider that that the the use use in in accordance accordance with with the the instructions instructions of of use use may may result result in in the the ai ai system system presenting presenting a a risk risk within within the the meaning meaning of of article article they they shall shall inform inform the the provider provider or or distributor distributor and and suspend suspend the the use use of of the the system.
when they have they have reasons have reasons to reasons to consider to consider that consider that the that the use the use in use in accordance in accordance with accordance with the with the instructions the instructions of instructions of use of use may use may result may result in result in the in the ai the ai system ai system presenting system presenting a presenting a risk a risk within risk within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of article of article they article they shall they shall inform shall inform the inform the provider the provider or provider or distributor or distributor and distributor and suspend and suspend the suspend the use the use of use of the of the system.
when they have reasons they have reasons to have reasons to consider reasons to consider that to consider that the consider that the use that the use in the use in accordance use in accordance with in accordance with the accordance with the instructions with the instructions of the instructions of use instructions of use may of use may result use may result in may result in the result in the ai in the ai system the ai system presenting ai system presenting a system presenting a risk presenting a risk within a risk within the risk within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of article meaning of article they of article they shall article they shall inform they shall inform the shall inform the provider inform the provider or the provider or distributor provider or distributor and or distributor and suspend distributor and suspend the and suspend the use suspend the use of the use of the use of the system.
they shall shall also also inform inform the the provider provider or or distributor distributor when when they they have have identified identified any any serious serious incident incident and and interrupt interrupt the the use use of of the the ai ai system.
they shall also shall also inform also inform the inform the provider the provider or provider or distributor or distributor when distributor when they when they have they have identified have identified any identified any serious any serious incident serious incident and incident and interrupt and interrupt the interrupt the use the use of use of the of the ai the ai system.
they shall also inform shall also inform the also inform the provider inform the provider or the provider or distributor provider or distributor when or distributor when they distributor when they have when they have identified they have identified any have identified any serious identified any serious incident any serious incident and serious incident and interrupt incident and interrupt the and interrupt the use interrupt the use of the use of the use of the ai of the ai system.
in case case the the user user is is not not able able to to reach reach the the provider provider article article shall shall apply apply mutatis mutatis mutandis.
in case the case the user the user is user is not is not able not able to able to reach to reach the reach the provider the provider article provider article shall article shall apply shall apply mutatis apply mutatis mutandis.
in case the user case the user is the user is not user is not able is not able to not able to reach able to reach the to reach the provider reach the provider article the provider article shall provider article shall apply article shall apply mutatis shall apply mutatis mutandis.
this obligation obligation shall shall not not cover cover sensitive sensitive operational operational data data of of users users of of ai ai systems systems which which are are law law enforcement enforcement authorities.
this obligation shall obligation shall not shall not cover not cover sensitive cover sensitive operational sensitive operational data operational data of data of users of users of users of ai of ai systems ai systems which systems which are which are law are law enforcement law enforcement authorities.
this obligation shall not obligation shall not cover shall not cover sensitive not cover sensitive operational cover sensitive operational data sensitive operational data of operational data of users data of users of of users of ai users of ai systems of ai systems which ai systems which are systems which are law which are law enforcement are law enforcement authorities.
for users users that that are are financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding their their internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes under under union union financial financial services services legislation legislation the the monitoring monitoring obligation obligation set set out out in in the the first first subparagraph subparagraph shall shall be be deemed deemed to to be be fulfilled fulfilled by by complying complying with with the the rules rules on on internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements processes processes and and mechanisms mechanisms pursuant pursuant to to the the relevant relevant financial financial service service legislation.
for users that users that are that are financial are financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding their regarding their internal their internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes under processes under union under union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation the legislation the monitoring the monitoring obligation monitoring obligation set obligation set out set out in out in the in the first the first subparagraph first subparagraph shall subparagraph shall be shall be deemed be deemed to deemed to be to be fulfilled be fulfilled by fulfilled by complying by complying with complying with the with the rules the rules on rules on internal on internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements processes arrangements processes and processes and mechanisms and mechanisms pursuant mechanisms pursuant to pursuant to the to the relevant the relevant financial relevant financial service financial service legislation.
for users that are users that are financial that are financial institutions are financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding their requirements regarding their internal regarding their internal governance their internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes under or processes under union processes under union financial under union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation the services legislation the monitoring legislation the monitoring obligation the monitoring obligation set monitoring obligation set out obligation set out in set out in the out in the first in the first subparagraph the first subparagraph shall first subparagraph shall be subparagraph shall be deemed shall be deemed to be deemed to be deemed to be fulfilled to be fulfilled by be fulfilled by complying fulfilled by complying with by complying with the complying with the rules with the rules on the rules on internal rules on internal governance on internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements processes governance arrangements processes and arrangements processes and mechanisms processes and mechanisms pursuant and mechanisms pursuant to mechanisms pursuant to the pursuant to the relevant to the relevant financial the relevant financial service relevant financial service legislation.
users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall keep keep the the logs logs referred referred to to in in article article automatically automatically generated generated by by that that high-risk high-risk ai ai system system to to the the extent extent such such logs logs are are under under their their control.
users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall keep shall keep the keep the logs the logs referred logs referred to referred to in to in article in article automatically article automatically generated automatically generated by generated by that by that high-risk that high-risk ai high-risk ai system ai system to system to the to the extent the extent such extent such logs such logs are logs are under are under their under their control.
users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall keep systems shall keep the shall keep the logs keep the logs referred the logs referred to logs referred to in referred to in article to in article automatically in article automatically generated article automatically generated by automatically generated by that generated by that high-risk by that high-risk ai that high-risk ai system high-risk ai system to ai system to the system to the extent to the extent such the extent such logs extent such logs are such logs are under logs are under their are under their control.
they shall shall keep keep them them for for a a period period of of at at least least six six months months unless unless provided provided otherwise otherwise in in applicable applicable union union or or national national law law in in particular particular in in union union law law on on the the protection protection of of personal personal data.
they shall keep shall keep them keep them for them for a for a period a period of period of at of at least at least six least six months six months unless months unless provided unless provided otherwise provided otherwise in otherwise in applicable in applicable union applicable union or union or national or national law national law in law in particular in particular in particular in union in union law union law on law on the on the protection the protection of protection of personal of personal data.
they shall keep them shall keep them for keep them for a them for a period for a period of a period of at period of at least of at least six at least six months least six months unless six months unless provided months unless provided otherwise unless provided otherwise in provided otherwise in applicable otherwise in applicable union in applicable union or applicable union or national union or national law or national law in national law in particular law in particular in in particular in union particular in union law in union law on union law on the law on the protection on the protection of the protection of personal protection of personal data.
users that that are are financial financial institutions institutions subject subject to to requirements requirements regarding regarding their their internal internal governance governance arrangements arrangements or or processes processes under under union union financial financial services services legislation legislation shall shall maintain maintain the the logs logs as as part part of of the the documentation documentation kept kept pursuant pursuant to to the the relevant relevant union union financial financial service service legislation.
users that are that are financial are financial institutions financial institutions subject institutions subject to subject to requirements to requirements regarding requirements regarding their regarding their internal their internal governance internal governance arrangements governance arrangements or arrangements or processes or processes under processes under union under union financial union financial services financial services legislation services legislation shall legislation shall maintain shall maintain the maintain the logs the logs as logs as part as part of part of the of the documentation the documentation kept documentation kept pursuant kept pursuant to pursuant to the to the relevant the relevant union relevant union financial union financial service financial service legislation.
users that are financial that are financial institutions are financial institutions subject financial institutions subject to institutions subject to requirements subject to requirements regarding to requirements regarding their requirements regarding their internal regarding their internal governance their internal governance arrangements internal governance arrangements or governance arrangements or processes arrangements or processes under or processes under union processes under union financial under union financial services union financial services legislation financial services legislation shall services legislation shall maintain legislation shall maintain the shall maintain the logs maintain the logs as the logs as part logs as part of as part of the part of the documentation of the documentation kept the documentation kept pursuant documentation kept pursuant to kept pursuant to the pursuant to the relevant to the relevant union the relevant union financial relevant union financial service union financial service legislation.
a. users users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems that that are are public public authorities authorities agencies agencies or or bodies bodies with with the the exception exception of of law law enforcement enforcement border border control control immigration immigration or or asylum asylum authorities authorities shall shall comply comply with with the the registration registration obligations obligations referred referred to to in in article article .
a. users of users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems that systems that are that are public are public authorities public authorities agencies authorities agencies or agencies or bodies or bodies with bodies with the with the exception the exception of exception of law of law enforcement law enforcement border enforcement border control border control immigration control immigration or immigration or asylum or asylum authorities asylum authorities shall authorities shall comply shall comply with comply with the with the registration the registration obligations registration obligations referred obligations referred to referred to in to in article in article .
a. users of high-risk users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems that ai systems that are systems that are public that are public authorities are public authorities agencies public authorities agencies or authorities agencies or bodies agencies or bodies with or bodies with the bodies with the exception with the exception of the exception of law exception of law enforcement of law enforcement border law enforcement border control enforcement border control immigration border control immigration or control immigration or asylum immigration or asylum authorities or asylum authorities shall asylum authorities shall comply authorities shall comply with shall comply with the comply with the registration with the registration obligations the registration obligations referred registration obligations referred to obligations referred to in referred to in article to in article .
when they they find find that that the the system system that that they they envisage envisage to to use use has has not not been been registered registered in in the the eu eu database database referred referred to to in in article article they they shall shall not not use use that that system system and and shall shall inform inform the the provider provider or or the the distributor.
when they find they find that find that the that the system the system that system that they that they envisage they envisage to envisage to use to use has use has not has not been not been registered been registered in registered in the in the eu the eu database eu database referred database referred to referred to in to in article in article they article they shall they shall not shall not use not use that use that system that system and system and shall and shall inform shall inform the inform the provider the provider or provider or the or the distributor.
when they find that they find that the find that the system that the system that the system that they system that they envisage that they envisage to they envisage to use envisage to use has to use has not use has not been has not been registered not been registered in been registered in the registered in the eu in the eu database the eu database referred eu database referred to database referred to in referred to in article to in article they in article they shall article they shall not they shall not use shall not use that not use that system use that system and that system and shall system and shall inform and shall inform the shall inform the provider inform the provider or the provider or the provider or the distributor.
tree..b rbek rbek en en .
tree..b rbek en rbek en .
tree..b rbek en .
users of of high-risk high-risk ai ai systems systems shall shall use use the the information information provided provided under under article article to to comply comply with with their their obligation obligation to to carry carry out out a a data data protection protection impact impact assessment assessment under under article article of of regulation regulation eu eu or or article article of of directive directive eu eu where where applicable.
users of high-risk of high-risk ai high-risk ai systems ai systems shall systems shall use shall use the use the information the information provided information provided under provided under article under article to article to comply to comply with comply with their with their obligation their obligation to obligation to carry to carry out carry out a out a data a data protection data protection impact protection impact assessment impact assessment under assessment under article under article of article of regulation of regulation eu regulation eu or eu or article or article of article of directive of directive eu directive eu where eu where applicable.
users of high-risk ai of high-risk ai systems high-risk ai systems shall ai systems shall use systems shall use the shall use the information use the information provided the information provided under information provided under article provided under article to under article to comply article to comply with to comply with their comply with their obligation with their obligation to their obligation to carry obligation to carry out to carry out a carry out a data out a data protection a data protection impact data protection impact assessment protection impact assessment under impact assessment under article assessment under article of under article of regulation article of regulation eu of regulation eu or regulation eu or article eu or article of or article of directive article of directive eu of directive eu where directive eu where applicable.
a. users users shall shall cooperate cooperate with with national national competent competent authorities authorities on on any any action action those those authorities authorities take take in in relation relation to to an an ai ai system system of of which which they they are are the the user.
a. users shall users shall cooperate shall cooperate with cooperate with national with national competent national competent authorities competent authorities on authorities on any on any action any action those action those authorities those authorities take authorities take in take in relation in relation to relation to an to an ai an ai system ai system of system of which of which they which they are they are the are the user.
a. users shall cooperate users shall cooperate with shall cooperate with national cooperate with national competent with national competent authorities national competent authorities on competent authorities on any authorities on any action on any action those any action those authorities action those authorities take those authorities take in authorities take in relation take in relation to in relation to an relation to an ai to an ai system an ai system of ai system of which system of which they of which they are which they are the they are the user.
chapter notifiying notifiying authorities authorities and and notified notified bodies bodies article article notifying notifying authorities authorities .
chapter notifiying authorities notifiying authorities and authorities and notified and notified bodies notified bodies article bodies article notifying article notifying authorities notifying authorities .
chapter notifiying authorities and notifiying authorities and notified authorities and notified bodies and notified bodies article notified bodies article notifying bodies article notifying authorities article notifying authorities .
each member member state state shall shall designate designate or or establish establish at at least least one one notifying notifying authority authority responsible responsible for for setting setting up up and and carrying carrying out out the the necessary necessary procedures procedures for for the the assessment assessment designation designation and and notification notification of of conformity conformity assessment assessment bodies bodies and and for for their their monitoring.
each member state member state shall state shall designate shall designate or designate or establish or establish at establish at least at least one least one notifying one notifying authority notifying authority responsible authority responsible for responsible for setting for setting up setting up and up and carrying and carrying out carrying out the out the necessary the necessary procedures necessary procedures for procedures for the for the assessment the assessment designation assessment designation and designation and notification and notification of notification of conformity of conformity assessment conformity assessment bodies assessment bodies and bodies and for and for their for their monitoring.
each member state shall member state shall designate state shall designate or shall designate or establish designate or establish at or establish at least establish at least one at least one notifying least one notifying authority one notifying authority responsible notifying authority responsible for authority responsible for setting responsible for setting up for setting up and setting up and carrying up and carrying out and carrying out the carrying out the necessary out the necessary procedures the necessary procedures for necessary procedures for the procedures for the assessment for the assessment designation the assessment designation and assessment designation and notification designation and notification of and notification of conformity notification of conformity assessment of conformity assessment bodies conformity assessment bodies and assessment bodies and for bodies and for their and for their monitoring.
member states states may may decide decide that that the the assessment assessment and and monitoring monitoring referred referred to to in in paragraph paragraph shall shall be be carried carried out out by by a a national national accreditation accreditation body body within within the the meaning meaning of of and and in in accordance accordance with with regulation regulation ec ec no no .
member states may states may decide may decide that decide that the that the assessment the assessment and assessment and monitoring and monitoring referred monitoring referred to referred to in to in paragraph in paragraph shall paragraph shall be shall be carried be carried out carried out by out by a by a national a national accreditation national accreditation body accreditation body within body within the within the meaning the meaning of meaning of and of and in and in accordance in accordance with accordance with regulation with regulation ec regulation ec no ec no .
member states may decide states may decide that may decide that the decide that the assessment that the assessment and the assessment and monitoring assessment and monitoring referred and monitoring referred to monitoring referred to in referred to in paragraph to in paragraph shall in paragraph shall be paragraph shall be carried shall be carried out be carried out by carried out by a out by a national by a national accreditation a national accreditation body national accreditation body within accreditation body within the body within the meaning within the meaning of the meaning of and meaning of and in of and in accordance and in accordance with in accordance with regulation accordance with regulation ec with regulation ec no regulation ec no .
notifying authorities authorities shall shall be be established established organised organised and and operated operated in in such such a a way way that that no no conflict conflict of of interest interest arises arises with with conformity conformity assessment assessment bodies bodies and and the the objectivity objectivity and and impartiality impartiality of of their their activities activities are are safeguarded.
notifying authorities shall authorities shall be shall be established be established organised established organised and organised and operated and operated in operated in such in such a such a way a way that way that no that no conflict no conflict of conflict of interest of interest arises interest arises with arises with conformity with conformity assessment conformity assessment bodies assessment bodies and bodies and the and the objectivity the objectivity and objectivity and impartiality and impartiality of impartiality of their of their activities their activities are activities are safeguarded.
notifying authorities shall be authorities shall be established shall be established organised be established organised and established organised and operated organised and operated in and operated in such operated in such a in such a way such a way that a way that no way that no conflict that no conflict of no conflict of interest conflict of interest arises of interest arises with interest arises with conformity arises with conformity assessment with conformity assessment bodies conformity assessment bodies and assessment bodies and the bodies and the objectivity and the objectivity and the objectivity and impartiality objectivity and impartiality of and impartiality of their impartiality of their activities of their activities are their activities are safeguarded.
tree..b rbek rbek en
tree..b rbek en

